Sunny Savita: Hey, hello everyone, I'm Audible, can you please confirm in the chat?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's, start with the session, let's begin with the class.
Sunny Savita: I hope I am audible and visible to all of you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you for the confirmation.
Sunny Savita: Let's begin.
Sunny Savita: Perfect, guys. So, first, let me show you that what all things we have completed so far, and after that, guys, I will, come to today's agenda, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, if you will go and check with the live classes.
Sunny Savita: Have you… are you following to me? Are you following to this live session?
Sunny Savita: How many of you are following this live session, continuously?
Sunny Savita: So, this is your dashboard, guys. Have you opened your dashboard? Please check with the dashboard. So, we have completed…
Sunny Savita: 15 sessions so far, okay? And we have, done the discussion around the embedding, transformer, encoding, right? And the roadmap kind of stuff.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, from after today's class onwards, we are going to be entered into the LLM world, right? So we'll see how we can access the different, different LLMs, what all different, different LLMs are there, and then, guys, we are going to be access those different LLMs using the different API.
Sunny Savita: And then we'll, enter into the fine-tuning world. So, let me give you the quick recap, so if you will open the syllabus, guys.
Sunny Savita: Now, inside the syllabus, if you will check the first module.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this is the first module. So we have already completed this first module, so today I'm going to be completed.
Sunny Savita: And then, guys, see, whatever we have learned inside this particular module, so this particular learning, we are going to be used inside the rack, okay? And, with this particular learning, basically, you can understand all the fundamental and all with respect to the large language model. So that's why I have spent this much of time,
Sunny Savita: That's why I have spent this much of time onto this module. Got it, guys? So that your fundamental could be strong, and you can understand the further thing very smoothly.
Sunny Savita: So, whenever we'll come to the rack chapter, so embedding is going to be help us, right? So, whatever embedding, encoding we have learned over here. Whenever we are looking into any LLM and all, and if someone is going to be asked you any fundamental question related to the LLM, you can answer those questions, okay? Because we have, understand all the things in depth, and, I…
Sunny Savita: I took sufficient amount of time for this particular module. Now, what we will do, guys, in tomorrow's session, I will give you the quick recap that water models we have in the current market, from where actually you can access all those models, okay? So, you have understanding of the encoding embedding transformer, you understood that water model we have in the market, right? And what is the architecture of that. I will take, 5 to 6 model.
Sunny Savita: From the different, different category, and I'll highlight you, okay, that model thing we have inside this architecture. I'm not going into the mathematics like this transformer and all, but I will give you the overview, high-level overview, okay, regarding those, model, and I will share the research paper as well, so that you can go through with it, because we have hundreds and lakhs of model, okay? It is not possible to cover, architecture of each and every model.
Sunny Savita: Right? And every model belongs to this transformer only, means the fundamental architecture. The fundamental architecture of every model is a transformer only. So we have spent enough amount of time on the transformer. Okay. Now, guys, I will give you the overview that model we have, what all, like, what all model we have, what all, different, different,
Sunny Savita: what I can say. Leaderboards we have, okay, and from how many places, actually, you can access the model. So, I will create one notebook, okay, you can also create along with me. I will show you in the live class itself. So, throughout this course, now, throughout this course, that notebook will be helpful for you. So, I will say, okay, inside this project, we are going to use OpenAI-based model, you will, go with that notebook, you will look
Sunny Savita: Copy that code, and you will use inside your working project.
Sunny Savita: Let's say if I'm saying, okay, let's use the model from the Gemini, from the Google API, we will use that. Let's say we are going to be used the free model from the Grog, okay? So, we are going to be used from there, right? Let's say we are going to be used from the Mesh API, from any other place, like Open Router and all. So, I will, show you that part, and I will show you how you can access the different, different model from the different, different places.
Sunny Savita: So, every model actually having a different API SDK, API SDK, guys, but I will show you through the langchain, because Langchain is a common framework, which is integrating everything, so most probably, from next class onwards, from next Saturday onwards, okay, I will come to the Langchain. Or even in the tomorrow session only, I will show you the installation and all over the langchain, okay? And, I will, show you, basically, how you can access the different, different models.
Sunny Savita: via Langchen itself, right? So, most probably, within two to three weeks, we are going to… sorry, within one week, actually, we are going to be complete till Module 3, okay, next… till next week, and then I will start with the fine-tuning, okay?
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys. So, if you are a new joinee, you can check out with all the recording and all. Everything is available over here. Everything is available, inside the dashboard, okay? Over the dashboard. And resources-wise, guys, so this is one and only place where you can find out the resources in a structured manner. So, I'm giving you the resources inside the resource section as well, but yeah, here you can check.
Sunny Savita: Inside the repository, you will find out all the resources.
Sunny Savita: Section-wise, sorry, class-wise, okay? So you can take all the resources from here itself. Yes, we'll be covering the MCP also, Lalit. Got it? Great. So, if the agenda is clear, idea is clear, please let me know, guys, so that I can, start with the session. Just give me a quick thumbs up, so that I can start, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yes, you can shook.
Sunny Savita: at least 2 years of experience. 3 years too high, but I would suggest you showcase at least 1 or 2 years of experience that you can cover, okay?
Sunny Savita: Thumbs up, guys, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: What is the agenda of today's session? Yes, Koshbu, I'm coming to that, okay? We'll talk about it. So, hi Shani's Mash API limited to India only? We'll have to check that, but I don't think so. You can access it from anywhere, okay? If you're… if you belong to the different time zone, then please check out. If you're facing any issue, any error.
Sunny Savita: I shared one, feedback form, right? So you can mention over there. Sir, please share the resources link. I shared multiple times, so please check out with the previous classes also, okay?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Perfect. That Mesh API PDF I already shared, Akshat, please check the previous, this, which one? Notion Notes, okay? Inside the Notion Notes, na, you will get that. Maybe I've given you somewhere. Just check out. I think here itself, in Class 8, na.
Sunny Savita: You will get it. Okay?
Sunny Savita: See, mesh API, just one.
Sunny Savita: I mentioned the document and all, everything. If you're asking document, I think that is also there, please check, okay? Now, yeah, Class 9 is also having that, correct?
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Sunibai, give assignment? Yes, Rakesh. Now we will… I will give you the foolproof assignment and all. So we have spent one month of time, enough amount of time over the fundamental in the theory, okay?
Sunny Savita: And then I will give you the enough amount of assignment. Don't worry, guys, okay? Just, don't worry about the assignment, I will give you each and every kind of assignment, even the industry-grade assignment.
Sunny Savita: With a, like, very, critical problem statement.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: Sir, what about NATN? Yeah, it will come, sir, right? NATN, like, what you will do in it? NN? You are a developer, right? You are going to be building everything from scratch.
Sunny Savita: NATM is also here, just check out.
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's begin, guys. So…
Sunny Savita: If you will go and check, if you will go and check with my previous session, okay? So the previous class, basically, I discussed, till the, encoder, right? I completed all the encoder stuff.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the notes from the previous class. Do you have these notes?
Sunny Savita: So, are you going to be covering Yalama Index? Yes, I'll give you, like, some sort of overview, but at least there will have to be master one framework, Mantach.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point.
Sunny Savita: Right? So master one framework, then you can understand any framework, and Langchen is leading to the market, so we have to be understand that.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the notes, basically, from the previous session. So let me summarize this entire notes, and then I'll come to the today's topic. So today, guys, I'm going to be complete this architecture.
Sunny Savita: We have couple of things over here, okay? Sir, I was too busy, totally, no one can understand, not sure if I can understand, I have to… yeah, you can check out the previous 10 RKC, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, I have a yesh also in the backend, so guys, if you have any sort of a doubt, you can ask with a yesh, okay? So, for 20 to 30 minutes, I'm not going to looking into the chat, otherwise, I will not be able to complete the session, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, if you will go and check, with my previous class, so I completed tilde, I completed, basically tilde encoder side, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I completed all the concept and all, everything, guys, related to the encoder.
Sunny Savita: And even I explain you about the layer normalization also, and I explain you the formula of that, okay? So, if you don't know about it, you can go and check out with a previous class, previous session.
Sunny Savita: But guys, but guys, a couple of, thing is still pending, right? If you will look into the transformer architecture, so you will find out that couple of things.
Sunny Savita: A couple of things are still pending, and we have to complete that. So, here, guys, you can see, this is the architecture, okay? Now, inside this architecture, I haven't discussed about the decoder side as of now.
Sunny Savita: So, decoder is almost same, decoder is almost same, similar to the encoder only.
Sunny Savita: But there is a couple of concepts which we need to understand. Otherwise, guys, we are not going to be marked complete, okay? We cannot mark this, topic, complete, until we are not going to be understand, the… until we are not going to be understand some important concept from the decoder side, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, this is the encoder of the transformer, and this is the decoder of the transformer. Now, just by seeing this particular architecture, can you tell me what is the difference? What is the difference, we have? What is the different, concept we have inside the decoder architecture?
Sunny Savita: Just let me know, in the chat that what you are seeing, differently over here, which you are not able to see inside the encoder architecture. Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So, here, if you will see, if you will see, guys, so, inside this particular architecture, you will find out
Sunny Savita: Output is same, okay? Means output, whatever output we are passing, that will be passing for sure. Then we have an output embedding, okay? That is also fine. Then we have a position encoding. We already know about that, okay? Now here, guys, you will find out one specific term.
Sunny Savita: You know about the, you know about the attention, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: I think I spent enough amount of time just to explain you the attention concept.
Sunny Savita: And I hope so, you understood the concept of the attention. Now, inside this particular block, you will see, mask attention, right?
Sunny Savita: So, mask, actually, it is a word. Mask, actually, it is a word which we need to understand.
Sunny Savita: And what is the meaning of it, and why we are doing it, okay? So we need to understand that part first. The second, basically, you know about the addition, near normalization, it means you know about the residual connection, you know about the layer normalization, yes or no, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, here you will see we have a multi-edit attention. Now, inside this multi-edit attention, guys, you will see something different, right? What is it different over here?
Sunny Savita: Right? What is a different over here? Sunny, can you reduce the… Yeah, I can do that. It is not a right… it is not a, basically, pen, I'm using this highlighter only, okay? Now, over here, guys, you can see, if we're talking about… just a second, let me mention.
Sunny Savita: So, we're talking about this particular blog. Now, inside this block, what you will find out.
Sunny Savita: So, inside this blog, actually, you will find out this arrow. This one arrow, the second arrow, and this is the third arrow. Now, one arrow, actually, it is coming from the
Sunny Savita: One arrow, actually, it is coming from this mask multi-edit attention, but two arrows, it is coming from where? From the encoder side, this one.
Sunny Savita: Are you able to see, guys? Tell me yes or no. You can see over here. You can see over here. This one. This is the…
Sunny Savita: connected architecture, okay? Now…
Sunny Savita: So, this is only called the cross attention. This is only called the cross attention, okay? Now, over here, you can see what I'm trying to explain, and after that, guys, I'll come to the concept side.
Sunny Savita: So, this is what… this is a encoder site. Let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: I think you already know, we spend enough amount of time on top of this particular concept.
Sunny Savita: And this is called the decoder site.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: decoder site. Now, over here, guys, tell me, if we're talking about the encoder and decoder, right, this is the transformer architecture. So, for which problem statement this transformer architecture was trained? Can anyone tell me, in the original research paper.
Sunny Savita: In the original research paper, what problem statement they have mentioned. They have mentioned neural machine translation, or it is also called the machine translation, okay?
Sunny Savita: It is also called the machine translation.
Sunny Savita: Machine translation means what? What is the meaning of the machine translation? We are going to be convert one language into the another language, okay? So, transformer… so encoder will take the input sentence, and after converting into the vector, okay, it's going to be passed that vector to the decoder.
Sunny Savita: So this decoder is being passed over here itself.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: This decoder is being passed over here itself? No. This decoder is not being passed over here. This decoder is being passed over here, okay, inside this block.
Sunny Savita: Inside this block, the decoder is being passed. Now, over here, if you will see, so the two arrow, actually, it is coming from where? From the multi… from the encoder side, and one arrow, actually, it is coming from this particular process, okay? So this is only called the cross-attention.
Sunny Savita: This is all we call the cross attention. So we need to understand this small concept also. What is this cross attention, okay? And how does it work?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, you will see we have an add and norm, we have a feed-forward layer, we have an add and norm. Then, guys, you will see one more block over here, and the block, basically, it's going to be what? So just focus over here, just see over here, this is going to be this linear block, right? Linear softmax output probability.
Sunny Savita: So, we have to understand this part as well, okay? This part as well. So, we're talking about the decoder side. So, decoder side, actually, we need to be understand about the, let me summarize over here. We're talking about the decoder side. The first thing which we need to understand, that is a mask.
Sunny Savita: Self.
Sunny Savita: Attention.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, the second thing which we need to understand, that's going to be a… Cross attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Mass self-attention and the cross-attention. The third thing, basically, which we have to see, which we have to understand, that's going to be an output head.
Sunny Savita: output had, means how the final output is being processed, okay? And apart from that, guys, we have to understand one more point. That's going to be a working, or behavior of the decoder block, okay? Working, or behavior of the decoder block. How this decoder block behaviour, right?
Sunny Savita: Behavior of working, or behavior of the decoder block.
Sunny Savita: Now, after completing all this concept, guys, we can peacefully, we can peacefully, sorry, I can peacefully complete it, I can, peacefully close this chapter, this Module 1, and then we can move to the other kind of chapter, okay? So, the idea is clear, the agenda is clear, please let me know in the chat.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Sir, little bit Zoom, please.
Sunny Savita: Whoop.
Sunny Savita: It is 195% Joom, huh? You are still asking Joom.
Sunny Savita: Please bear some, eyeglasses, huh?
Sunny Savita: Already I zoomed na? How much Zoom I will do now?
Sunny Savita: Okay, great. So, I hope this entire thing is clear. Now, one more thing. See, over here you can see, guys.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this NX?
Sunny Savita: This one. NX means what? NX means there could be multiple encoder, and there could be multiple decoder, okay? So, decoder side also, we can have multiple decoder, and encoder side also, we can have a multiple encoder.
Sunny Savita: This is called stack of the encoder, or a stack of the decoder. This thing is clear. I think everyone knows about it, right? Now, coming to the next part. So, over here, guys, I written one, thing. Just, read this, particular, just read this particular text.
Sunny Savita: So what I'm writing, I'm writing, originally, the transformer architecture was introduced for the neural machine translation, okay? Attention, is all you need, this is the paper name, and the main aim to convert the data into the English to French, or French to English, or German to English, okay?
Sunny Savita: So the architecture had encoder side and the decoder side. Encoder read the source sentence, and decoder generate translated target sentence word by word, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, I hope, this thing is clear. Now, coming to the next part.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, you will read one more sentence, and this is going to be a little important, okay? So just focus over here, that what I have written over here.
Sunny Savita: So, I return, training trans… transformer training pipeline is a parallel pipeline, right? But whenever we talk about the inferencing, what is the meaning of the inferencing, guys? The meaning of the inferencing is going to be a prediction, right? So, whenever we talk about the prediction, guys, so the prediction is going to be a sequentially.
Sunny Savita: Are you getting my point, what I'm trying to say, right? Now, over here, you can see I written one more thing. Transformer decoder, right? So, transformer decoder, it is a non-autoregressive at the time of the training, but it is an autoregressive at the time of the prediction.
Sunny Savita: Are you able to understand? Anyone is able to get it? Tell me. What is the meaning of it?
Sunny Savita: what I'm trying to say. This concept is very tightly associated with the mask self-attention, okay?
Sunny Savita: I'll come to that if you're not able to understand this particular sentence. I'll come to that, and I'll try to explain you, okay? Now, before that, let me explain you that how this, decoder is going to be worked, and then one by one, step by step, we are going to be, like, we are going to disclose each and every layer of the decoder.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Yes. Autoregressive means sequentially. You are right.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So guys, can we start with the decoder now? If you are with me, just let me know in the chat, so that we can understand, this, decoder working also quickly, okay?
Sunny Savita: Speed is okay, everyone is, everyone's able to understand, everyone is able to cooper with me, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Okay, great, thank you.
Sunny Savita: So, this is what… this is the, transformer. Sorry, this is the, like, one mock of the transformer, okay? Now, just see over here, guys, this is representing to the encoder. So, we're talking about the original research paper. This is what, guys, tell me, this is the encoder side, okay?
Sunny Savita: Let me, write over here.
Sunny Savita: This side, actually, it is an encoder, okay?
Sunny Savita: And, the other side of it, it's going to be a decoder side. Now, if we're talking about… if we're talking about decoder and encoder stack, right, so let me write, this is going to be a…
Sunny Savita: Sorry, decoder.
Sunny Savita: decoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, here is what? Here is a… here I have what? Here I have an encoder, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, why I've written 6? Can anyone tell me? Why I've written 6?
Sunny Savita: So, inside the original research paper, there could be… there… inside the original research paper, actually, we were having the 6, okay? We… what we were having, we were having the 6 encoder and the decoder, right? We can have as many as… this is just a hyperparameter.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is just a hyperparameter.
Sunny Savita: Right? So the annex which you were seeing, the annex which you were seeing.
Sunny Savita: the NX value which you were seeing, right? It was 6.
Sunny Savita: Where it was 6 inside the original research paper, but again, this is the hyperparameter I already discussed. Now, guys, if we're talking about the encoder, so can you tell me the two main components of the encoder?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the encoder.
Sunny Savita: So, can you tell me two important concepts, or two main components of the encoder? The first component of the encoder is called the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And the second component of the encoder is called what?
Sunny Savita: encoder is called the feed-forward neural network, right? It is a neural network. Now, we're talking about the decoder side. Now, can anyone tell me the important concept or the important component of the decoder?
Sunny Savita: So the first component is going to be
Sunny Savita: mask self-attention. It is our tweaked variant of the self-attention, okay?
Sunny Savita: mass self-attention. The second is going to be what? The second is going to be cross attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Cross attention. And the third, basically, it's going to be what? Feed-forward neural network.
Sunny Savita: And then after that, guys, what you will get, after that, I can write one more thing over here. So, after that, you will get an output head, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, whatever output, basically, it's coming from here.
Sunny Savita: So, you will get what? You will get the output head.
Sunny Savita: So, is this clear?
Sunny Savita: On a high level, on a high level, is this thing clear? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, see, this is what, this is a decoder. Let me write over here, so whenever you are going through with these particular nodes, you can understand very quickly, right?
Sunny Savita: Great. Now, after that, guys, you will see what we have. See, whenever we're talking about, whenever we're talking about the training, so, let's say if we have any model.
Sunny Savita: any model.
Sunny Savita: Any model means any deep learning or any machine learning model.
Sunny Savita: So there is a two-phase of that model.
Sunny Savita: The first phase of that model is called, tell me, guys, what is the first phase of the model?
Sunny Savita: The first phase of the model is called the training, and the second phase of the model is called the prediction.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now guys, tell me this, transformer is also a model, yes or no. If we're talking about the transformer.
Sunny Savita: This is also a model, okay? It is a… Deep learning model.
Sunny Savita: It is a deep learning model.
Sunny Savita: I hope this is clear. Now, if we're talking about a training, right? If we're talking about the training, so training happens parallelly.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: training happened parallelly. And this prediction, actually, this inferencing, prediction is also called the inferencing.
Sunny Savita: At many places, you will find out this particular word. It is very, important and the popular word, right? So, prediction or inferencing, basically, it happens sequentially.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Sequentially.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, whenever we're talking about a transformer, so there, the training is happening parallelly, and the prediction is happening sequentially. Now, guys, if we're talking about… see, let me tell you. So, if we're talking about the word, which I told you, right? Which I, shown you, that word, basically, it was an autoregressive.
Sunny Savita: This auto-regressive, actually, this particular word, it came from where? It came, actually, from the time series. You know about a time series?
Sunny Savita: time series.
Sunny Savita: So, time series, inside the time series, what happened? We're talking about the time series, right? So, the current timestamp data, it depends on the previous timestamp data.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, let me take an example. Let's say here, what I have, I have a stock price. The stock price from the day 1, stock price from the day 2, stock price from the day 3, and let's say stock price of the day 4.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if I wanted to predict the stock price of the day 4, so what I will do, guys, I will definitely go through with the stock price of the day 1, D2, and D3. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the stock price, okay, if we're talking about the stock price, any stock, right? Any stock you can pick. So, if we are going to be predict… if we are going to be predict the value of that D4, actually.
Sunny Savita: Right? We are going to be predict the value of the D4, so we are going to be, like, analysis the value of the D1, D2, and D3, right? So based on the previous time stem, based on the previous time stem, if we are going to be predict the value of the next time stem, okay, or the current time stem.
Sunny Savita: Based on the previous timestamp, if we are going to be predict the value of the current timestamp, right? So that is called the autoregressive training, okay? Autoregressive learning.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, we're talking about, see.
Sunny Savita: Let me add one more page over here.
Sunny Savita: So I'm going to be at one more page. So, let me explain you this autoregressive in a little more detail. So, over here, guys, see, we're talking about the previous model. So, what model we had, tell me, if we're talking about the previous model, the earlier model. So, we are having the RNN and the LSTM model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? RNN in the LSTM model. So we have the RNN model.
Sunny Savita: and the LSTM model.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, tell me, we're talking about this RNN model or STM model, so this is also a model, it is a deep learning-based model, right? And over here, guys, we are going to be using this particular model for what? For the training?
Sunny Savita: Okay? And for the prediction… Right?
Sunny Savita: training or testing. This training or, prediction is also called the testing, it is also called the inferencing. There is a different, different terms, right? And, the meaning is same. We are going to be predict the final value.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, whenever we're talking about this RNN and LSTA model, now tell me, guys, with this RNN and LSTA model, we were trying to solve the time series problems also.
Sunny Savita: We are trying to solve the time series problem statement also. We can, we can, we can basically, we can, basically, solve the time series related problem also, okay, using this RNN LSTM.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about this training, training or the prediction, right, using this RNN and LSTM model, both were sequentially.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Both were sequentially.
Sunny Savita: So let me write over here. The both were the sequentially.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: this training also was the sequentially, and the prediction also was the sequentially. Right? So let's say, if I'm… if I have a LSTM layer, let me, write over here, let me show you over here. So let's say here I have a LSTM layer, okay? So this is my, one layer, one time stamp, this is my another time stamp.
Sunny Savita: This is my another time stem. Okay, this is my another time stamp, right? This one. Now, let's say we have a sentence.
Sunny Savita: What is a sentence? I can write the sentence over here. The sentence is… Nice, too.
Sunny Savita: Nice, too.
Sunny Savita: Meet you, right?
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my sentence, guys. Now, here, guys, what I'm doing, let's say if I wanted to train the model.
Sunny Savita: So, how I will be passing the data? Let's say this is my timestamp, okay? This is my time stamp. So, at T is equal to 0, this is my T is equal to 0. At T is equal to 0, what I'll do, I'll pass what? I'll pass nice over here. This is one word.
Sunny Savita: Then this will come to the same layer again, and time is time too, okay?
Sunny Savita: And then, I will pass one new word at time stamp 1 over here. That's going to be what? That's going to be 2, okay?
Sunny Savita: Then what will happen, guys? From the previous timestamp, this data will come, right, to the current timestamp, and to the current time stamp, what I'll be passing, I'll be passing meet, right? So let's say I wanted to predict this word, this U. This is what? This is my word, basically, which I wanted to…
Sunny Savita: Predict, okay? So what will happen, guys? Over here, this will come from the previous time stamp.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and this is what? This is my current timestamp. So, here is what? Here is my T is equal to 2, right? This is my T is equal to 2, and at T is equal to 3, what I wanted to… I wanted to predict, actually. What I wanted to predict, I wanted to predict the next what, right? So, for that, what I'm doing.
Sunny Savita: I'm processing all the previous word, okay? And how I'm processing all the previous words? Sequentially, we are processing all the word, right? So whether we are doing a prediction or whether we are doing a training, in this manner only, the training was hap… sorry, in this manner only, this LSTAM architecture was working.
Sunny Savita: So let me write over here, this is what guys tell me, this is the LSTM layer.
Sunny Savita: This is the LSTM layer, okay? This is what, guys? This is the LSTM layer.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? This is the LSTM layer. So, this was the biggest disadvantage of the LSTM layer. Now, over here, guys, if you are going to be follow this approach for the training, right, if you are going to be follow this particular approach, the sequential approach for the training, right, so the training is going to be slow.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, if you are going to be follow, let me write over here, if you are going to be follow this sequential approach.
Sunny Savita: For the training.
Sunny Savita: for the training. So the training is going to be very, very slow, right? So the training is going to be very, very slow. So what we have to do, guys, we're talking about the transformer, okay? So we're talking about the transformer. So how the training is happening inside the transformer?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, so the training is happening parallelly, okay? We are passing our data parallel, and because of that, the training is going to be fast, and we are going to be train our transformer, we are going to be train our transformer over lots and lots of data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Lots and lots of…
Sunny Savita: of data. And because of that, this LLM concept came into the picture. LLM means what? Large Language Model, which is being trained over the huge amount of data, over the huge amount of data.
Sunny Savita: Making sense or not? Tell me, guys. Now, over here, over here, guys, see, for this only, for parallel training only, this,
Sunny Savita: mask self-attention was introduced, okay? And I'll come to that, how basically it was, how basically this mask self-attention was being used for performing the parallel training, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, C.
Sunny Savita: Here I've drawn the complete architecture that how the data is being flown, how the data is being flown inside where, inside the decoder, okay? So now let's understand that part, how the data is being flown inside the decoder architecture.
Sunny Savita: Now, first of all, tell me, guys, see, what we are going to do, we are going to be train the model, okay? So, first, what we'll do, we'll focus on the training side.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, if we're talking about the training.
Sunny Savita: So, on which problem statement this transformer was being trained? Over the machine translation problem. So, let's say I have a sentence over here, what I'm going to do, I'm going to take a sentence. The sentence is going to be this one.
Sunny Savita: So I'm going to take a sentence, guys, this is what, this is my sentence, okay? So let me take this sentence over here, and on top of this particular sentence, we'll try to train our model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? I'm just taking a one sentence, and on top of this particular sentence only, we'll try to train our model. So, if I'm going to train our model, so this is going to be what? This is going to be our input.
Sunny Savita: Right? And this is going to be what? This is going to be an output, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This is going to be what? This is going to be output. So, inside the dataset, we could have lots and lots of data set, right? But I'm just taking one single point, and we'll see
Sunny Savita: We'll see how, basically, we can train our model, how the decoder is behaving, okay, with respect to this particular data. So, can we start, guys? Can we understand the entire decoder process? Over here, I written the entire decoder process. Just let me know in the chat so that I can proceed, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, are you with me till here? If you are with me till here, just let me know. And how's the understanding so far?
Sunny Savita: Are you getting everything correctly?
Sunny Savita: Yes? Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: So, let's understand, let's see, basically, how, we are going to be… do that, okay? What is… where is MOE? Where I written MOE, huh?
Sunny Savita: It is input and output, no, sir?
Sunny Savita: IP means input, OP means output.
Sunny Savita: Decoder using LSTM model? No, no, no, decoder is not using LSTM model. Sir, Navinji, please check with the architecture, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, now let's do one thing, see? We have two sides. The one side is going to be encoder, okay? And the other side is… definitely is going to be a decoder. Now, tell me, guys, from where my input is being passed, tell me, tell me, tell me fast, fast, fast.
Sunny Savita: Tell me from where my input is being passed. My input is being passed from here itself.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So what is going to be my input over here? What is going to be my input over here?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me, tell me. My input is going to be…
Sunny Savita: We are friends, right? So this particular sentence, I'm going to be pass over here.
Sunny Savita: My sentence is what? We… R… Friends.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is my sentence. Now, the sentence will be processed, and after processing, right, now the sentence will be processed guide, and after that, guys, we will be getting some output over here.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no, please tell me. We'll be getting some output over here.
Sunny Savita: This is going to be what? This is going to be my output, right? So I'll be getting this particular output. Now, where this output is being passed.
Sunny Savita: Where this output is being passed. So this particular output is being passed inside the decoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, over here, guys, see?
Sunny Savita: If you will look into the decoder, so the input is being passed over here, but before that also, we have several.
Sunny Savita: Before this also, we have a several.
Sunny Savita: Processing. Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: And after that only, this, cross-attention part will come. And then the other part, right? Some other thing we have.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, only we have an output head, okay? So before coming to this part, the cross-attention part, okay, or, let me explain to you that how the data is being processed inside the decoder, okay? We'll understand that side from here itself. So, what will we pass over here? See, we are into the training phase, okay?
Sunny Savita: We are into the training phase of the model. So what we are going to be passed in the decoder side? Tell me, so here, into the decoder side, we are going to be passed forward, we are going to be past this hum, those, right? So this is what, this is my sentence. Hum.
Sunny Savita: those. H.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So, this is the input side, this is the input side, and this is where… this is the output side. This is the output, basically. And this thing we are passing into the decoder.
Sunny Savita: decoder.
Sunny Savita: And this thing, we are passing into the encoder.
Sunny Savita: So the idea more clear now? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is the sentence, no? On this particular sentence, we are going to be train our data. Sorry, on this particular output, sorry, on this particular data, we are going to be train our model, so that's why input is here, we are friends, and this is what? This is my output.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So can we see, guys, how this output is being processed inside the decoder?
Sunny Savita: Can we see how this output is being passed inside the decoder? Now see, okay? So, this is where the output is being passed, okay? So, let's say this is my output.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Now, first, what will happen, guys? First, the tokenization will happen of my data.
Sunny Savita: So, my data will be creating a token. So, this is my first token, this is my second token, and this is my another token, okay? Now, along with the token, guys, you will find out that one more important word is being added at the start of the sentence, that is SOS. So, can anyone tell me the full form of the SOS?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, what is the full form of the SOS?
Sunny Savita: Recorder comes during the inferencing stage? No, in the training stage also, no? How you will train the model then, huh?
Sunny Savita: Start of the sentence, correct. So the SOS means what? Start of the sentence. So, this is called the shifting. If you will look into the architecture of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the architecture of the transformer. Can you see, guys? Is it visible to all of you?
Sunny Savita: So, over here, you can see they have added one term that is called the shifted right.
Sunny Savita: Can you see this shifted right?
Sunny Savita: So let's say I have a… I have an output over here. We are passing an output over here. What we are passing? We are passing output over here, and we are shifting right. So what is the meaning of it? So let's say this is my output,
Sunny Savita: those… Alright.
Sunny Savita: So I will shift this right. I will shift this output to the right, and in the starting of the… in the starting of the sentence, I'm going to be add one, I'm going to be… add one important token that's going to be SOS, which is indicating my sentence is going to be start from here.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Bharat is saying image is not readable, then open inside your system also, no, Bharatji.
Sunny Savita: I already shared the paper link, I already shown you multiple times.
Sunny Savita: If you are using a bigger monitor, or maybe your screen is not clear, then please open inside your system also as an image, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, you can see, so we are going to be shifted, what we are going to be doing? We are going to be shifted to the right, okay? This thing is clear, please tell me.
Sunny Savita: Is this thing clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Yes, output decoder syndicator. You are right, Upgrush. Okay? Now, over here, guys, see, so, what is happening?
Sunny Savita: the output is being passed over here, we have a tokenization layer. At the end, we are passing it from the embedding layer, okay? Embedding layer. Now, tell me, guys, in the embedding, what I have, I have a word-to-back lookup. Now, what is the size inside the original research paper of this word-to-back lookup?
Sunny Savita: So we're talking about this word-to-back lookup, the original size was the 512. So here, the embedding is being created, okay, of this particular word. Okay? Now, what will happen, guys? Then, this PE1, PE2, PE2, P3, PE4 will be there. So, what does this, guys, tell me? This is a positional encoding.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is what tells me, guys, this is a positional encoding. So let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: Positional, and coding.
Sunny Savita: Positional valve, positional encoding, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what will happen?
Sunny Savita: We are… we are having this X1, X2, X3, and X4. So this is what, guys, this is my final vector, which I'm going to be passed inside the maskhead self-attention. So this is what, guys, tell me, this is my final vector, which I'm going to be passed into the maskhead self-attention.
Sunny Savita: So just check out with the architecture. It is the same one, so if I'm going to be scrolled up, and if I'm going to be show you this architecture…
Sunny Savita: See? We are doing the same thing, we are following the same thing.
Sunny Savita: What we have, guys, we have a shifted right.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we have added a new token over here, then we have our embedding layer, then we have a position encoded layer, and then we are passing this X1, X2, X1, X2, and X3.
Sunny Savita: to the self-attention. Sorry, mask added self-attention. So, till here, everything is fine, guys. Tell me yes or no. Argue with me till here, till this particular point.
Sunny Savita: Are you with me to this particular point?
Sunny Savita: why we are doing shifting, so that my encoder can understand from where the sentence is going to be start, okay? So that's why we are adding this special token.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what will happen? This data will be passed to the mask headed self-attention. So, this is still black box for us, this mask headed self-attention. We need to understand that, okay? So, I'll explain you.
Sunny Savita: So, after passing my data from the mask at itself attention, I'm getting this J1.
Sunny Savita: Jet 2, Jet 3, and Jet 4. Now, over here, guys, what I'm going to do, I'm going to be at this escape connection on the Residal connection. You know about the escape connection, you know about the residual connection, tell me yes or no, this one.
Sunny Savita: So, I already explained you this escape connection or residual connection in my previous classes. If you're not aware about this thing, you can go and check, right? Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, this is going to be add.
Sunny Savita: Okay, the same vector is going to be added, and this is going to become my vector, okay? That JET1, JET2, jet 3, and JET4. This particular data I'm passing here, I'm passing over the layer normalization layer.
Sunny Savita: So once I'll pass it from the layer normalization layer, so JET1 norm, JET2 norm, JET3 norm, JET4 norm, this is going to become my vector, okay? Now, let me show you the, let me show you what, let me show you this decoder architecture. So I can take a screenshot of it, and I can keep it over there, so that…
Sunny Savita: you can compare it, okay? Side by side, you can compare this entire process.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now guys tell me, are you with me till here? Till this particular part?
Sunny Savita: Z1 norm, Z2 norm, Z3 norm, and Z4 norm. This one.
Sunny Savita: Are you with me till here? Yes or no? This one.
Sunny Savita: Till this particular part, okay? Now, after that, what will happen, guys? Tell me. So here, we are passing this JET1 norm, JET2 norm, JET3 norm, jet for norm.
Sunny Savita: Now, along with that, along with that, guys, here is a twist, okay? Along with that, this input is also coming. This input is also coming. Can anyone tell me from where this input is coming? Tell me, tell me, tell me, guys, where from where this input is coming. This input is coming from the
Sunny Savita: and a coder site. Okay, so this input, this input… And… this input.
Sunny Savita: this input.
Sunny Savita: Now, where it is colliding? Tell me. Tell me, guys, where it is colliding. All these inputs are colliding.
Sunny Savita: inside the cross attention layer, cross encoder, sorry, cross attention layer. So, we need to understand that part. Yes, we need to understand that part. I'll explain you that, okay? Now, after that, guys, what will happen? We are going to be passed the data from the cross attention, and we are getting this.
Sunny Savita: Z1, ZE1, ZE2, ZE3, and ZE4, okay? Then again, we have a residual connection over here, so let me write what we have, guys. Again, we have a residual
Sunny Savita: connection, or it is also called the keep connection, or it is also called the identical connection, okay? Now, after adding this data, this particular data, this particular data, okay, into this particular vector, which I'm getting from the cross attention.
Sunny Savita: Right? So what I'll be getting over here, tell me guys, we'll be getting this JET E1, Z2, ZE3, ZE4, so I expl… I showcase this, entire vector with JET… with this JET E1-Jet E2-Jet E3- and jet E4 dash, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, just check over here, guys.
Sunny Savita: We are passing it from the cross attention, and we are getting the vector, and this is the residual connection, guys. Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is the residual connection. You can check out, you can check out this entire process inside the original diagram also. Now, after that, guys, what will happen? So, we are passing it from the layer normalization layer again.
Sunny Savita: So here is what, guys, here is my layer normalization layer, this one. And then, guys, whatever output we are getting, this one, this is what is my layer normalization output.
Sunny Savita: This one. This, this, this, and this. Now, tell me, guys, where this output is going to be passed. Can anyone tell me where this output is going to be passed?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me, tell me. So this output, basically, is going to be passed to the feed-forward neural network.
Sunny Savita: making sense or not? Tell me. Till here, are you with me? If you will check out with this particular architecture, you will be getting… so let me revise it, let me revise this entire thing.
Sunny Savita: So what will happen, guys? Just focus over here.
Sunny Savita: So, we have what? We have output, then we have output embedding, positional encoding, multi-mask attention, ad normalization, cross attention, normalization, and in between, we have some residual connection also. Two residual connection also.
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, whatever vector I'll be getting, I'm going to pass it to the feed-forward network.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Tell me yes, okay. Now, guys, this one, this one, ZE1, ZE2, ZE3, ZE4, so over here, guys, see.
Sunny Savita: Over here, this data, this ZE1, ZE2, ZE3, ZE4, we are passing here. We are going to be passed this particular data. See, this is the matrix, everything will work in this matrix form only. So, what will be the original size of the matrix? Can anyone tell me?
Sunny Savita: The original size of the matrix is going to be 4 cross 512, okay? According to the original research paper. This is according to the
Sunny Savita: Okay, clear. Now, here is what, guys, this is my feed-forward network.
Sunny Savita: Now, can anyone tell me the size of this hidden layer?
Sunny Savita: According to the original research paper.
Sunny Savita: So the size of the header layer is going to be 2048. It could be anything. It is just, the size of the header layer, actually, it is just a hyperparameter, okay? Now, after that, guys, this output is being passed from this output layer, sorry, this input is being passed from this, neural network, and we are getting this particular vector.
Sunny Savita: Okay? What we are getting, guys, tell me we are getting this particular vector, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We are getting this particular vector. Now, here is my output. Y1, Y2, this one, Y1,
Sunny Savita: Y2, Y3, and Y4. Now, again, guys, we have a residual connection over here.
Sunny Savita: Again, want what we have? We have a residual connection.
Sunny Savita: So if you will check out… if you will check out, guys, with this particular architecture, with this particular architecture, you will find out the residual connection over here. So let me highlight this… let me highlight that, residual connection, just a second, so that your understanding will be clear over here.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, here, see, we are passing, we are passing, till here, I think you are clear, right? Then, we are passing this particular input to the feed-forward neural network. Okay, this is my neural network. Now, over here, you will find out we have one more residual connection, this one.
Sunny Savita: add a norm. So what is happening, guys? Now see over here?
Sunny Savita: This is what, this is my residual connection. Again, we are passing the same… again, we are adding the data to this particular vector, this output vector, and what we are getting, we are getting this Y1 head, Y1-Y2-Y3 dash, and Y4-
Sunny Savita: Then what we are doing, guys, we are passing it to the layer normalization layer, okay? And then what we are getting, Y1 norm, Y2 norm, Y3 norm, and Y4 norm.
Sunny Savita: Now, this particular data, guys, this data which you are seeing.
Sunny Savita: Now, this particular data only, it will be passed to the final prediction had.
Sunny Savita: This particular data only, it will be passing to the final prediction head.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, if you will look into the final prediction hat, that what we have, just focus over here. Just focus over the final prediction hat. What I can do, guys, I can take a screenshot for all of you. So, this is the final prediction hat, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, let me take this final prediction hat from here, and let me keep it, okay, inside the notes itself, this one. So, if you will talk about the final prediction hat. So, first of all, tell me, guys, from where the input is coming to this final prediction hat.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, from where this… from where the input is coming to the final prediction head.
Sunny Savita: Tell me fast, if we're talking about the final prediction had, from where the input is coming.
Sunny Savita: the input is coming from the feed-forward neural network. So, guys, can we say this vector, this particular vector, can we say this particular vector, this particular vector, actually.
Sunny Savita: It's… it's… it is this one. It is going into this linear softmax, and then output probability. Tell me, guys, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, over here, guys, if we are talking about this particular vector, so this is what, guys, tell me. This particular vector, actually, it is an output of this layer. It is an output of it. Now, this particular output is going into the linear, into the softmax, and then we are getting an output probability.
Sunny Savita: Till here, everything is fine. These two slides are clear to all of you. Tell me, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Yes, these two slides are clear to all of you.
Sunny Savita: Yes? Okay. Now, after that, guys, what we have? We have a final head. So this is going to be our final head. Now, inside the final head, what is going to be there? We need to be understand that part.
Sunny Savita: So we're talking about the final head, guys. So, what is going to be there in the final head? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: In the final head, basically, we have softmax layer, okay? And along with the softmax layer, we have one more layer, that is called… that is called, guys, tell me…
Sunny Savita: It is called the linear layer. Okay, so we need to be understand about that layer also. So, can we say, guys, this is my input? Let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: This is the input which I'm getting from the feed-forward layer.
Sunny Savita: This is the input which we are getting from.
Sunny Savita: input from feed-forward neural network, okay? Now, this particular input, it is going where? Can anyone tell me what is this input and where it is going? Just tell me, guys, so that I can clarify the last layer also.
Sunny Savita: So here, guys, this is nothing, this is a linear layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is the linear layout.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, this is the linear layer, this is also called the projection layer.
Sunny Savita: Projection Leo.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is what is a projection layer. Now, tell me, guys, what is going to be a size of this projection layer?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the size of this projection layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what is going to be a size of this projection layer?
Sunny Savita: The size of this projection layer is going to be equal to the size of the vocabulary.
Sunny Savita: the size of the vocabulary. Okay. So, the size of this, projectile layer, the linear layer, is going to be…
Sunny Savita: Size of the vocabulary. Vocabulary of output column.
Sunny Savita: Vocabulary of what, vocabulary of the output column.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, over here, guys, if we're talking about the output column, so let's say how many words we have in the output column, how dozte, right? So, we have 3 words, 4 words, along with the SOS. So, the size of this particular layer is going to be what?
Sunny Savita: the size of this particular layer is going to be what? 4, okay, in our case. So here, this is the linear layer.
Sunny Savita: projection layer, and the size of this particular layer is going to be vocab of the output column, okay? And now, after that, guys, I will be getting a vector. So this is what is my vector, guys. Let me show you over here, this is what is my vector.
Sunny Savita: Now, this particular vector whatever vector I'm getting, okay, after the linear projection.
Sunny Savita: Let me… Keep it with the same size.
Sunny Savita: Let me keep it with the same size, okay?
Sunny Savita: Let me keep this with the same size, right?
Sunny Savita: So, over here, guys, what I'll be getting, I'll be getting a vector, right?
Sunny Savita: Let's say this is my final vector.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, what will happen?
Sunny Savita: what will happen? Now, this particular data is going to the softmax layer.
Sunny Savita: This particular data is going to the softmax layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: SoftMax layer. Now, over here, what softmax will do, tell me, guys, the SoftMax will give me the probability.
Sunny Savita: Let me highlight over here, let me write over here. So this particular data is going to the softmax layer.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, softmax, what it will do, it will give me a… it will… what? It will provide me a probability of each and every word, right? So, we're talking about the probability, guys, so let's say how many words we have. We have a…
Sunny Savita: four words, right? So, first word is going to be SOS. So, the probability of it's going to be 0, okay? It will not define any probability of that. Then, we have another word that's going to be HUM.
Sunny Savita: So, it will give me a probability of that, it will give me a probability of those.
Sunny Savita: And it will give me a probability of half, okay? So let's say somewhere the probability of it… probability of it is going to be 0.7. The probability of this is going to be 0.2, and the probability of it is going to be 0.1. So this is what, guys, this is my predicted output.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is Maya?
Sunny Savita: predicted output.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is what? This is my predicted output. Now, this particular value, actually, it's going to be compare with what? This particular value, actually, it's going to be compare. Can anyone tell me this particular value is going to be compare with what?
Sunny Savita: This particular value, actually, is going to be compare… tell me, guys, this particular value is going to be compare with the actual value.
Sunny Savita: So we have an actual value, let's say hum, dosed?
Sunny Savita: So here is what, here is my actual target, actual value.
Sunny Savita: Now, what will happen, guys? This value, actual, and…
Sunny Savita: Actual and then predicted, so we'll find out the minus between that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Actual…
Sunny Savita: and predicted. So what I'll be getting, guys, what I'll be getting if I'm going to be finding out a minus between that, so I'll be getting what? I'll be getting a…
Sunny Savita: loss value.
Sunny Savita: loss value. And what is the aim of the training, guys? What is the aim of the training? The aim of the training is to minimize this loss value.
Sunny Savita: So this is going to be done it for the multiple epochs.
Sunny Savita: Making sense to all of you, tell me, guys, how this entire training is happening of the transformer. Are you able to understand it or not? Tell me. Yes? So this is the complete flow.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is the complete flow.
Sunny Savita: Monies is saying no. Monies, if you're not able to get, please let me know in the doubt session, please tell me your doubt in the doubt session. We'll discuss that. Or I will give you one more time, I will give you the recap of the one more time, okay, so that you will be able to understand, right? What happened in the linear layer? We'll understand that, okay? Don't worry, I'll give you one more level of quick recap.
Sunny Savita: But before that, guys, if we're talking about this decoder architecture, now tell me, guys, just by seeing this decoder architecture, what you understand, what a concept we need to understand over here? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: What concepts are… what are concepts are important over here? Tell me, inside the decoder architecture. We need to understand two things.
Sunny Savita: The first is going to be what? The first is going to be a cross attention. So let me write over… see, I already mentioned over here the cross attention. And the second thing is going to be what?
Sunny Savita: The second is thing… the second thing is going to be maskhead self-attention. This mask self-attention, okay? So guys, let's take a break, and after that, can I explain this cross-attention and the mask attention? And then one more time, we'll take a recap of this entire,
Sunny Savita: One more time, guys, we'll take a recap of this entire architecture.
Sunny Savita: And after that, guys, the entire thing is going to be clear to all of you. And then, peacefully, we can close this chapter, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, once you will go with this entire notes na, your entire understanding is going to be clear. So, tell me, guys, till here, are you with me? Are you able to understand the entire flow of the transformer? It is easy, right? It is just a matter of revision.
Sunny Savita: Once you will go through with it, you will be able to understand, right? So, I hope you are able to understand the final head, but most of the people are saying, so linear layer? What is this linear layer? Why we are using this linear layer? The concept of the linear layer is simple, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: The concept of the linear layer is simple. I'll explain you that. It is very, very easy, okay? So, this is the final head, guys, and here the prediction is being happened.
Sunny Savita: And then, this will be an iterative process, right? But if you are confused about this linear layer, I can explain you with a very simple example. What is this, and why we are doing that, right?
Sunny Savita: Great. So, guys, just one more hour, and then, we are able… we can understand this cross-attention and this multi-retention.
Sunny Savita: And one more time of reca… one more recap, and finally we can close this chapter. So is it fine to all of you? Tell me yes or no? Can we take us, can we take a break now?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, Regines, it could be, okay?
Sunny Savita: You are.
Sunny Savita: partially right.
Sunny Savita: Fine, so let's take a break, and after that, guys, I'll share this entire notes and document, so that you can go through with it. And you want the assignment from my end? Tell me yes or no. So I'll give you the very good assignment, guys. Tomorrow I'll give you that.
Sunny Savita: I'll give you very good assignment on the transformer itself, so that you can do it, okay? And I'll explain the entire problem statement and all everything.
Sunny Savita: So, in tomorrow's session, I'll give you the complete and the detailed assignment over the transformer itself.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. So, yeah, guys, let's take a rest, let's take some break, and after that, I'll explain you two important concepts, and then we'll close it. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so can we start with the session? Please give me a quick thumbs up so that we can start.
Sunny Savita: Everyone is there, correct?
Sunny Savita: Everyone's back.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, so far, whatever, I've shown you, I hope you got it, you got the complete flow.
Sunny Savita: Correct, no? Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys. I wanted to show you something.
Sunny Savita: See, someone is saying over here.
Sunny Savita: She's a Rakesh Kumar. Rakesh, are you there?
Sunny Savita: Rakesh Kumar.
Sunny Savita: So, Rakesh is saying, I used to look like it's focus on just repeating block diagram, but not core concept. Very, sir, what I was saying…
Sunny Savita: I've given you the complete flow first, right? And then I, told, okay, this is the, like, concept, now which we need to be understood after the break. So if you're not able to hear properly, if you're not hearing properly, then what is my mistake over there?
Sunny Savita: Tell me. Now, here is one more person, this Anand's saying, explanation is English-based, works, but not reasoning-based, why this thing is designed. Anand, have you seen any session, have you revised any session so far?
Sunny Savita: I took 6-7 sessions on the transformer. If you're going to be putting at least your 20-30% effort, na, after the class, even in the weekdays, okay? You will not ride this thing over here.
Sunny Savita: Again, I'm saying, I see. Badge, any badge, any tutorial, anything, it is just a 50% of your learning.
Sunny Savita: 50% you will have to do, guys. Why… why you are not able to understand that? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: It is not a good thing. I see. Being professional, you will have to be admit this thing. Are you writing like this in your office group also? You are working professional, right? Everyone is working for the bigger enterprises.
Sunny Savita: for the good, like, companies, right? For the, big system, big, projects and all. Are you writing like this also in your group, in your office's group? If anyone is giving you any explanation or any presentation? So guys, understand.
Sunny Savita: Involved in this entire one?
Sunny Savita: Single tutorial, okay, any one tutorial cannot teach you 100% thing, even 90% thing.
Sunny Savita: tutorial, lessons, sessions, it is just for the guidance, guys. We have to do the self-study.
Sunny Savita: Whenever we are in school, right? Why teachers are giving homework to us? Why we are going to the… why we are going extractions.
Sunny Savita: And why we are doing the self-study. Self-study matters a lot. Whatever competitive exam you are preparing, for whatever company you are preparing, whether you are learning AI or not, self-study is an important one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So guys, again, I'm saying 50% is a mentor efforts, 50% is your effort, okay? And, see, one more thing. If we are giving you the permission to write in a group, right? So that doesn't mean you can write anything. Again, I'm saying… again, I'm saying to all of you, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, please, guys, be mindful. If you're going to be right, anything with a half-knowledge, and we will see, okay, you are diverting the people who really want to be learned, study, we'll block you.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Yeah.
Sunny Savita: Fine, guys. So, let's, I hope you are, able to understand it, and,
Sunny Savita: We are able… we have gone through with the entire, flow and all everything. Now, let's, do one thing. We have two main concepts. The first concept, basically, it's called the cross attention, and the second is called the self-mask attention, okay? So, now, let's do one thing. Let's, understand that part. So, I already written the notes related to that.
Sunny Savita: Oh…
Sunny Savita: Here it is. Okay, so we'll start from here. So, tell me, guys, everyone is able to understand the self-attention. If I'm asking, I think so many people have joined over here, so please let me know in the chat if the self-attention concept is clear or not.
Sunny Savita: Yes, it is clear. Great. Now, over here, see.
Sunny Savita: We're talking about the cross-attention. So, cross-attention is also a type of the self-attention, right? Now, how this cross-attention is different from the self-attention? We need to understand that part first. So, I hope, guys, you are able to see this block.
Sunny Savita: This one, self-attention and the cross-attention.
Sunny Savita: Now, just focus over here and try to understand that why this particular concept is different.
Sunny Savita: So this is the cell for tension.
Sunny Savita: And this is a cross-attention. Now, inside the self-attention, what we are trying to do.
Sunny Savita: Inside the self-attention, if we're talking about the self-attention, so we're trying to understand the importance of this word.
Sunny Savita: With respect to the other words, okay?
Sunny Savita: With respect to the other words.
Sunny Savita: Right? So let's say if we have a… if we have eat, right? Eat, this… this one. So we are going to be understanding the importance of this word, this eat word, with respect to the other word.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this one.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point?
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about the cross attention, so instead of the cross attention, what we are going to do… so instead of the cross attention, basically, we are trying to find out a relation between two different sequences. So, here is one sequence, like, I, like, eat, pizza. Now, here is a translation of that, mosaic pizza, passante.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, these two are the different sequences, yes or no? So, this is the sequence one.
Sunny Savita: And this is the sequence 2, which is the translation of that.
Sunny Savita: So, if I wanted to find out, if I wanted to check, okay, this word is belong to which word?
Sunny Savita: Okay, it belongs to which word in the translated sequence. Then, for that, basically, we are going to be using the cross-attention concept.
Sunny Savita: The meaning is simple, right? The word is a self-explanatory. Cross attention. Cross means what? It is, talking about the two different sequences.
Sunny Savita: It is talking about what? It is talking about two different… Sequences.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It's talking about what? It is talking about two different sequences, okay?
Sunny Savita: Mojave Pija, I like eat pizza. Huh? You can write now that, trouble, translation could be anything. I just returned that, just to map the thing. You can write the exact translation, right? Getting my point. Just understand the concept over here.
Sunny Savita: So, let's…
Sunny Savita: If we have a sentence, I like eat pizza. This is the first sequence, and mujay pizza ashand, this is another sequence.
Sunny Savita: So, if we are going to be map, okay, if we are going to be check the similarity, okay? Let's say here we have an I. Now, this I accurately is similar to which word in the other sequence?
Sunny Savita: Right? This I actually is similar to which word in our sequence. For that, what we do, we use the cross-attention concept.
Sunny Savita: Now, I return the definition, try to understand the definition. So, what I'm saying, guys, over here, see.
Sunny Savita: Cross-attention is a mechanism where one sequence attends to another sequence, another different sequence, to gather relevant information.
Sunny Savita: Are you able to understand the definition? This definition?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Are you able to understand this, definition, yes or no?
Sunny Savita: So, it is a very simple definition. I think everyone is able to do it. Everyone is able to understand, right?
Sunny Savita: No.
Sunny Savita: Over here, cross-attention is a mechanism in transformer architecture where the model uses queries from one output, from output sequence, and keys and value from the input sequence to focus relevant part of the input while generating the output. So this is, like, a little technical, okay? And will have to be understand, this particular definition, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, what we are… what it is trying to say over here, right? Now, over here, guys, you can see.
Sunny Savita: if we are looking into this particular architecture, just focus over here. So, what is happening? So, whatever input we are getting from here.
Sunny Savita: This is what, guys, this is the input. We are getting the input, and we are passing this input to this multi-retention.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, you can see this two arrow, actually, it is coming from the encoder side, and one arrow is coming from the decoder side, which is having some strong meaning.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Which is having some strong meaning. And the meaning is nothing, meaning is this one.
Sunny Savita: I written the meaning over here, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: This is the meaning, guys. Cross-attention is a mechanism in the transformer architecture where the model uses queries from the output sequence, okay?
Sunny Savita: And keys and values from the input sequence.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys. So, we're talking about the key query and value. Let's say we have a key.
Sunny Savita: Then we have a query.
Sunny Savita: then we have a value. So we have 3 metrics related to that. WQ, WK, WQ, and WV, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, guys, what we are going to be doing, we are going to be multiply our vector, we are going to be multiply our input with this particular metric size, right? So, over here it is saying cross-attention is a mechanism and transformer architecture where model uses queries from the output sequence. So this query basically
Sunny Savita: We are going to be using it from the output sequence.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Means the query vector, basically, this query vector, we are going to be used from the output sequence.
Sunny Savita: And this one, this key end value.
Sunny Savita: It is coming from where? It is coming from the input sequence, this particular thing.
Sunny Savita: Key and value, it's coming from the input sequence.
Sunny Savita: So, is this clear as of now, till this point? Are you able to read this definition, at least?
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: From where these weights get decided. Same question, again and again, huh? Ayush? How many times did I explain this question? In a previous class, previous to previous class, before that?
Sunny Savita: It is a random weight, or deep learning is having some mechanism to decide the weights, huh?
Sunny Savita: Please check out the previous classes, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, this is the definition. Now, see.
Sunny Savita: I hope you are able to understand what is happening in the encoder. Encoder is taking an input, and decoder is decoding that output, right? So it is just the same reflection of this architecture.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's understand the same part with the example. Okay, so I kept the example. Now, tell me, guys, is this thing clear? What is the difference between the self-attention and the cross-attention?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, is this difference clear or not? If in single line, if you wanted to give the definition, then how you will give?
Sunny Savita: If someone is going to be asked you in an interview what are the differences between the cross-attention and the self-attention, how you will say that, how you will… how, basically, you are going to be explaining them.
Sunny Savita: Self-attention. Within a sentence, we are going to be checked.
Sunny Savita: Within a sentence, actually, we are going to be checking the importance of the word, okay? So we're talking about the self-attention, it is in a same sequence.
Sunny Savita: Same sequence.
Sunny Savita: Check.
Sunny Savita: The importance of the word.
Sunny Savita: Same sequence, check the importance of the word.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: With respect to… with respect to the other word.
Sunny Savita: Okay? And are we talking about the cross attention?
Sunny Savita: So, check.
Sunny Savita: importance.
Sunny Savita: of the word.
Sunny Savita: From one sequence.
Sunny Savita: One sequence to the… another sequence.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Check importance of the word from one sequence to the another sequence. Got it, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, over here, guys, see?
Sunny Savita: Self-attention versus cross-attention. So, we need to be understand, what we need to be understand? We need to be understand that what is the input to that, what is the… how the data is being processed there, and what is the output, right? So, if we're talking about the self-attention, so it comes encoder-side.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We are passing this input.
Sunny Savita: let's say V.
Sunny Savita: R?
Sunny Savita: friends, and this is going to the self-attention block, and we'll be getting the output, right? Now, we're talking about the cross-attention, guys, so this cross-attention is coming to the decoder site.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, how we are passing the input to that? So, we are passing the input like this. Hum, we, those, are…
Sunny Savita: Hey, friends. So, this entire input is going to the cross-attention. So, first we need to understand the self-attention and the cross-attention on the input side. So, what is the input to the self-attention?
Sunny Savita: The input to the self-attention is this one. And what is the input to the cross-attention?
Sunny Savita: This is the input to the cross-attention. Is it clear to all of you? What is the input to the cross-attention? What is the input to the self-attention? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: How, basically, the input is being passed to the cross-attention.
Sunny Savita: This part is clear. Guys, please focus over here, okay? So, like this, this input is being passed, right? Now, see.
Sunny Savita: So, over here, if we're talking about the self-attention, see, I created one more diagram, I created one more diagram just to explain you. So, what the self-attention is doing, it is trying to find out the similarity between the words, okay? So, this particular diagram, you can understand, let's say, VV, okay?
Sunny Savita: Let's say VR… so VV, actually, it is a strong con… it is having a strong connection, so I can show that with a bigger circle.
Sunny Savita: We are, let's say, less one. V friends, okay, little more similarity.
Sunny Savita: Okay, we are something like that, right? So I can showcase… what I can showcase? I can showcase the similarity over here between the words, okay? This one sequ… this one word, how it is related to the another word. So this is just a visual representation, nothing else, guys. Okay?
Sunny Savita: This is just a visual representation.
Sunny Savita: So that you can understand.
Sunny Savita: We have a weights over here, and with that weight, we are just going to be check the similarity, right? V friend, some similarity, okay? We are small one, friend, friend, major one, something like that. And the cross attention, what we are doing, if we're talking about the cross attention.
Sunny Savita: So this word, this word, this word, this word, this word, this word, how it is related to that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Don't think over here that this R is a DOS. No, we are just passing a sequence. Hum those, we are friends. That's it, guys. Don't think that this is related. No, it's not like that. We are just passing a sequence. Getting my point, guys? We are just passing… what we are doing, we are just passing that, okay? So don't try to do the exact match over here.
Sunny Savita: that we are, or this, that, right? We are just passing a sequence. Now, what is a cross-attention, guys?
Sunny Savita: cross attention, we are trying to find out the, again, similarity from one sequence to the another sequence. So, here I can summarize that. Same sequence.
Sunny Savita: And here I can write the different sequence, okay? This comes from the different sequence. Now, over here, guys, if I can, see, if I can represent the similarity from that circle, right? So, hum and V is connected, right? So, it is having a more one
Sunny Savita: I can say a VNUM is a, like,
Sunny Savita: V means what? Hum, right? So, I can give them more similar to the… more similarity to this one, okay, with a bigger circle. Now, hum V, right? So, let's say here is the less one, V friends, okay, something like this. So, I can fill this metrics like this, okay, just to explain it, just a visual representation.
Sunny Savita: That how we can visually represent.
Sunny Savita: How we can visually represent.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: how we can visually represent this cross-attention and the self-attention. Now, tell me, guys, with this particular explanation, whatever I did so far, you're able to understand at least 50% of the cross-attention.
Sunny Savita: But at least… sorry, you are able to understand the 50% of the cross-attention, but still, you are not able to understand that how the data actually is being processed, okay? So I will explain you that, I will explain you with one more example. But first of all, tell me, with this entire notes and all, whatever I've written over here, you are able to understand at least 50% of the cross attention, and on the high level, the… on the high level, the idea is clear of the self…
Sunny Savita: of this cross-attention. If it is clear on the high level, then please let me know in the chat so that I can proceed with the proper example.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: On which basis V and HUM has same weight, or is same weight nahi, Viksha, it is not a same weight. I'm saying similarity, actually. What attention does, Viksha? Attention, actually, it's find out…
Sunny Savita: the word weightage, right, with respect to this particular word. See, we have this word. Now, with respect to this word, we are going to find out the word weightage. So, what I'm saying here, hum, actually, this V, actually, it will be having a more weightage toward this hum. R, it will be having less weightage. Friend, it will be having some more weightage.
Sunny Savita: That's what I'm trying to say, Vic Shah, understand that, okay? It is just a visual representation. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Great.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. So, I hope you are able to understand that now, this is just one more, there's just one more, basically, image I capped over here to recap the self-attention. So, if you wanted to recap the self-attention, guys, you can recap it from here. So, let's take a quick recap of it. So, let's say we have a sentence, we…
Sunny Savita: R…
Sunny Savita: Friends, so this is the embedding of it. So what we'll do, guys, we are going to be multiply with the Q.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Q metrics, K metrics, and V metrics, so we will be getting that.
Sunny Savita: Right? We will be getting that. After that, guys, what will happen? See, V, we have this 3 vector, Q, K, and V. R is having 3 vectors, Q, K, and V. Friends is having 3 vectors, Q, K, and V. Right? Then what we will do, guys, over here, just tell me.
Sunny Savita: If we will look into this particular image, what we will do, we are going to be multiplying this Q and K,
Sunny Savita: This Q and K will be getting this S1. Then Q and K will be getting this S2. This Q and K will be getting S3. So we are going to be compute the score over here. This is the dot product, right, between the vector
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, Q, and this one, so we'll be getting this weight, this way, this way, this weight, this weight, and this weight, right? This is the similarity, actually. Now, after that, guys, what will happen? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: After that, guys, we are going to be applying the softmax over here. Okay, we are doing a scaling, so we are getting this W1, W2, W3, W4, or this weights, right? So we are getting these particular weights after the softmax. Now, we are going to be multiplying this weight, W1, W2, with a value vector.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no, guys? And then, what we are getting, this is the contextual embedding. This one. This is what? This is my contextual embedding, and this is my aim, this is only my aim, to get the contextual embedding using the self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Is it clear to all of you? The self-attention recap is clear with a single image itself? So whenever you wanted to recap the self-attention, you can recap from here itself, okay? I kept one image for all of you, so that…
Sunny Savita: Now, let's understand the cross attention, okay? I kept one example for the cross attention, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Where it went, I kept that just a second.
Sunny Savita: Decoder, decoder, decoder… I kept one example, guys, where it went. I returned that, actually.
Sunny Savita: But it's coming 2 times, huh?
Sunny Savita: I think something happened here.
Sunny Savita: Where is that example?
Sunny Savita: Okay, just a second, guys. I can check, otherwise I can again rewrite that. Okay, wait.
Sunny Savita: Actually, no, I kept that example. I think I've shown you that in the previous class also, correct?
Sunny Savita: Okay, no problem, I can write that. Okay, wait.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys. Give me a moment, okay, wait.
Sunny Savita: Fine, I can write that example, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: So, one cross-attention example, how the data is being processed.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so what was my example? My example was… V… R… Friend.
Sunny Savita: Now, what is going to be a translation of it? Hum, DOST, okay?
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: So, what will happen, guys? You can take any example. I can take this simple example, okay? We are friend, Hamtos, whatever you can take, right? Whatever you wanted to take.
Sunny Savita: Now, what will happen, guys? See?
Sunny Savita: This is coming from the output site.
Sunny Savita: And this is coming from where? From the input side.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, how this self… how this cross-attention block will process this data.
Sunny Savita: So first, what will happen, guys? Here I return one, here I return one definition, just focus on that, this one.
Sunny Savita: Cross-attention is a mechanism in the transformer architecture where the model uses queries from the output sequence, okay, and key and value from the input sequence. So let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: what will happen, guys? Key and value.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Key… Key and value from where?
Sunny Savita: So, key and value. This particular vector, actually, it will come from the input side.
Sunny Savita: And query vector.
Sunny Savita: query vector, it will come from where? From the output side. Now, how it will happen? See.
Sunny Savita: So, what we have, what we have, we have this one.
Sunny Savita: You can write…
Sunny Savita: This is my first word. Hum.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then, I have a next word.
Sunny Savita: This is V.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Then, I have, next, DOST.
Sunny Savita: Let's say R, Here is… huh?
Sunny Savita: we are friends, right? So this is friend.
Sunny Savita: So, this is what, this is my data. Now, what will happen, guys? See?
Sunny Savita: Over here.
Sunny Savita: If you will see this one, this hum. So first, what will do, what will happen? The embedding is being generated of every word, okay?
Sunny Savita: So we'll be having an embedding of each and every word.
Sunny Savita: So let me mention the embedding over here.
Sunny Savita: Here, I'll be getting an embedding of this hum.
Sunny Savita: Here, the embedding of B.
Sunny Savita: Here, basically, the embedding of those.
Sunny Savita: the embedding of R. Okay.
Sunny Savita: Then embedding of this hair, and then embedding of this friend.
Sunny Savita: Till here, everything is fine. See, we just have generated the embedding only, nothing else over here.
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So, the embedding is clear, great. Now, after that, what we'll do, guys, see? This hum, right, from where it is coming.
Sunny Savita: it is coming from the output side, okay? So we're talking about the output side, so from here only, we are going to be calculate the query. So, we'll be having a matrix. This is my metrics.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this one. So here, actually, the… see, this one, this dozed, this one, Right? And this one, hair.
Sunny Savita: So here, We are doing a multiplication with the… query metrics.
Sunny Savita: So this is going to be what? My query weight matrix, WQ.
Sunny Savita: This is going to be what, guys? Tell me? This is going to be my querybit metrics, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here is also my query weight matrix, this one, WQ.
Sunny Savita: So we'll do the multiplication of this particular vector with the query vector.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point? I hope this is clear. Okay? This one.
Sunny Savita: Why we are doing it, we'll understand that part, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what will happen? We'll be having two more metrics, so here is my two more metrics. The first metrics is going to be…
Sunny Savita: W.
Sunny Savita: K… Okay? And the second matrix is going to be what? The second matrix is going to be WV.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this is what, guys, W… K.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: WK… and WV.
Sunny Savita: this one. So, WK… And what, guys? WV.
Sunny Savita: So this is what this is mine.
Sunny Savita: Second metrics. Let me write the name over here. This is my WK.
Sunny Savita: WV.
Sunny Savita: WK and WV.
Sunny Savita: WK… and WV.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys, yes or no? Till here, everything is fine. Are you able to understand the process, at least?
Sunny Savita: Are you able to follow me till here?
Sunny Savita: Yes?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, what will happen? Now, after that, what will happen, guys? See?
Sunny Savita: We'll be getting a vector of this.
Sunny Savita: We'll be getting what? We'll be getting a vector of this.
Sunny Savita: This one, query vector. We'll be getting a query vector over here. So let me write the query vector. So this is going to be what? My query vector, okay? So query…
Sunny Savita: of home.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, what I'll be getting, I'll be getting…
Sunny Savita: this key vector from where? Key vector from V.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: key vector from V.
Sunny Savita: And this vector, this is going to be what?
Sunny Savita: This is going to be my… Again, value vector from V.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, what will happen? See, just focus. Here, we'll be getting… query vector.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, key vector.
Sunny Savita: Off?
Sunny Savita: Key vector of what? Key vector of R, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, guys, what we'll be getting, we'll be getting value vector of what? Value vector of R.
Sunny Savita: Right? And here, if we're talking about this one, so you'll be getting a query vector.
Sunny Savita: Query vector of what? Query vector of?
Sunny Savita: Dos.
Sunny Savita: I think this one.
Sunny Savita: This is my query vector. Now here, same guys.
Sunny Savita: Here, we'll be getting a query vector formware.
Sunny Savita: query vector from here. And if we're talking about this vector, so this is going to be what? This is going to be my key vector.
Sunny Savita: Key vector from where? From here?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, key vector from friend. So let me write over here friend.
Sunny Savita: And here, value vector form where value vector form, friend.
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you? This is clear, are you with me till here?
Sunny Savita: Are you with me till here? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, what is happening? So, here, the multiplication will happen.
Sunny Savita: Right, so what is… what is going to be multiplied, guys? So here, the multiplication will happen.
Sunny Savita: So we'll be getting query key and value vector. Now here, the multiplication will happen. So let me write the multiplication.
Sunny Savita: In the multiplication, we are going to be multiplier what? We are multiplier.
Sunny Savita: So, let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: This is what… See, multiplication will not happen over here. Let me create one more layer over here for the multiplication.
Sunny Savita: But first of all, tell me, guys, are you clear with all this query key and value vector? So, if you are able to… see, if you are able to understand this now, now you can understand this definition also. The definition of the cross attention, which I have written over here, this one.
Sunny Savita: So just focus on this definition and understand what I have written. See this one.
Sunny Savita: This one, guys.
Sunny Savita: Cross-attention is a mechanism of the transformer where the model uses query from the output sequence and keys and value from the input sequence to focus on the relevant part of the input while generating the output. Now, is it clear? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Just give me a quick confirmation so that I can proceed, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, what will happen, guys? So, there will be a multiplication of query and key. Now, we'll be having a multiplication of what?
Sunny Savita: Query and key.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Then whatever weight I'll be getting from here.
Sunny Savita: Whatever weight I'll be getting over here, we are passing that weight to the softmax function.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and then, basically, I'll be getting the weight.
Sunny Savita: And this weight, actually, I'm going to be multiplied with a value vector.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Now, how the multiplication will happen?
Sunny Savita: how the multiplication will happen. Now, let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: So, here… We'll be having the query.
Sunny Savita: of… Hum. Okay.
Sunny Savita: query of whom?
Sunny Savita: Query of whom. Now, this is going to be multiply of… this is going to be multiply with what? This is going to be multiply with a key vector. So, query of hum.
Sunny Savita: query of DOST.
Sunny Savita: Query of those.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now here is what? Query of hair.
Sunny Savita: Query of hair.
Sunny Savita: And here is what? Query of… Huh?
Sunny Savita: Right? Now, this is going to be multiplied with what? This is going to be multiplied with the
Sunny Savita: vector, right? So key, so let's say this is my vector. Over here, this is my vector.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my vector.
Sunny Savita: This is what?
Sunny Savita: This is my vector, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this is my vector, this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is mine.
Sunny Savita: vector, guys.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here, guys, see, this thing is going to be multiplied with what? This thing is going to be multiplied with a key vector, so this is my key vector, okay?
Sunny Savita: This is what is my key vector.
Sunny Savita: So, this will multiply with a key vector.
Sunny Savita: Key vector. Now, key of what? Let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: key of V… Key of R, okay? Key of what? Key of R.
Sunny Savita: And key of what? Key of friend.
Sunny Savita: You're getting my point, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: We are going to be multiplied with this one. Now, here is what? K of B.
Sunny Savita: key of R… And key off front.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, here, key of V… key of R,
Sunny Savita: And key off front. Like this only, attention works, no? Tell me, guys, yes or no.
Sunny Savita: I hope you are clear now, okay? So this is going to be multiplier. Now, you understood from where the key is coming, from the… from where the Q is coming.
Sunny Savita: I think we are able to get it now, right? Now, after that, what will happen, guys? So, this particular value, if we're talking about the values, so this 3 value, actually, we are get what we are getting, guys, tell me. We are getting S1,
Sunny Savita: S2.
Sunny Savita: And S3, right? I can write over here in a clear term. So this is what? S11? This is what? S12, this is S13. Now, from here, what I'll be getting? I'll be getting this.
Sunny Savita: as 2, 1, S22 as 2, 3.
Sunny Savita: Now, from here, guys, what I'll be getting? I'll be getting as 31, as 3, 2, as 33. This particular value is being passed from the softmax layer, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, this particular polio will be passed from the
Sunny Savita: Soft max layer, right? This one.
Sunny Savita: So, if I'll be passing this value from the sort max layer, what I'll be getting, guys.
Sunny Savita: If I'm passing from this value from the sort max layer.
Sunny Savita: I'll be passing this W1, W2, and W3. So let me write over here.
Sunny Savita: I will be getting W1.
Sunny Savita: Now, this one, I'm going to be multiplied with the… V of V,
Sunny Savita: Then this one, W2, we are going to be multiplied with a V of R,
Sunny Savita: Okay? And this one, W3, we are going to be multiply 1111213, right? So let me write in that way. So over here, what I can do, I can write in a correct way, okay?
Sunny Savita: So this is what? W11, which is going to be multiplied with what? B of V.
Sunny Savita: W12, which is going to be multiplied with what? V of R. W13 is going to be multiplied with what? V of friend.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what will happen? We are going to be add this vector, and whatever final vector we'll be getting over here, that's going to be what? That's going to be my contextual vector.
Sunny Savita: That's going to be what? That's going to be my contextual vector. Now, the same thing over here as well. So here is what? Here is my W.
Sunny Savita: 2, 1, which is going to be multiplied with what? V of V.
Sunny Savita: Then… W22 multiply with what? V of R.
Sunny Savita: and W23, it's going to be multiplied with what?
Sunny Savita: It's going to be multiplied with V of friend, simple, right? Now, after that, whatever vector you'll be getting, so this is only going to be what? This is only going to be my contextual vector.
Sunny Savita: Contextual vector, okay? Now, over here, guys, again, the same thing. So, this is what? This is the 3-1, right? This one.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here also, the same thing will happen. So, we'll be having this W31,
Sunny Savita: Multiply with what? V of V.
Sunny Savita: plus W32, Multiply with what? V of R, okay? And then… plus W33 multiplied with what?
Sunny Savita: V off.
Sunny Savita: V of what? V of Friend. V means what? Value, okay? Then whatever final value we'll be getting, that final value is going to be what? This final value is going to be what? My contextual vector.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys, how we are getting a contextual vector. Now, tell me, is this thing is clear or not?
Sunny Savita: this is a self… this is a cross attention, actually. So, like, wise, guys, this cross attention is working.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I hope all the thing is clear. Actually, this query, it is coming from where? It is coming from the output sequence, okay? So, if you will see the queries from the output sequence, if I can use the same color now, I think it would be good for you. So, let me do one thing. Let me draw this diagram with the same color, okay?
Sunny Savita: I took the different color now over there, so let me take the same color over here as well, so that, you will not be confused, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, I'm going to take a same color. This is… this was my color, guys, okay? This is what? This is my vector color. So, query of home.
Sunny Savita: query or form.
Sunny Savita: Query of whom, okay? This one.
Sunny Savita: Query of those, query of those… Okay, query of those.
Sunny Savita: A query of hair.
Sunny Savita: This is what? Query off here.
Sunny Savita: And this is what query off has.
Sunny Savita: Now, this is going to be multiplied with what? This key value, okay? And because of that, guys, we are able to extract the context, and then S1S2S3, softmax, and then we are going to be multiplied with the value vector, and finally, we are getting a contextual vector.
Sunny Savita: Now, did you understand, guys, how the thing is being processed inside the cross-attention? I can show you that, I think, in the previous session, I shared that, entire, just a second.
Sunny Savita: So, let me open it. Again, I'm going to be open the notes from the previous session. So, this is the notes from the previous session, guys.
Sunny Savita: I think you will see that particular example over here itself. So, is it visible to all of you? Guys, give me a quick confirmation if you're able to see these notes.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I kept that example over here, with respect to the cross attention.
Sunny Savita: So maybe you can understand it, okay? I saved these notes in the last class itself.
Sunny Savita: Mass self-attention, mass self-attention, earlier normalization.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I did not cap the example of the cross attention.
Sunny Savita: I'm able to remember, I capped, actually.
Sunny Savita: I… why it is not there?
Sunny Savita: A self-attention mask.
Sunny Savita: Actually, I've drawn one example by myself.
Sunny Savita: Mask, mask, mask, cross… even I capped for the cross also, cross attention. Fine, guys, so whatever example I showed you, na, right now, it was the same, actually.
Sunny Savita: But I, written, before the session itself, so that's why I'm worrying why… where it went, actually.
Sunny Savita: Not able to get.
Sunny Savita: Okay, no worries, I think, you are able to get it.
Sunny Savita: So, tell me guys, fast, did you understand the concept of the self-attention? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, tell me, tell me fast. Simplest. Okay, very, very simple, nothing else. Just, just, let's revise it. Okay, guys, please focus.
Sunny Savita: So, just focus for 2 more minutes, okay? Just focus for the 2 more minutes, and let's understand the concept of the cell cross-attention. So, in the cross-attention block, what is happening? In the cross-attention block, if we're talking about the cross-attention block, so this… both input and output is being processed, tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Whatever I'm asking, just say yes or no, guys, regarding that, okay? Please say yes or no.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the cross-attention block, what is being passed over there? If we're talking about the cross-attention block.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, yeah. So, we're talking about the cross-attention block. This thing is being passed over there. Now, how this thing is being processed over there? See?
Sunny Savita: This…
Sunny Savita: This key vector, actually, it is coming from the input sequence.
Sunny Savita: This key vector is coming from the input sequence.
Sunny Savita: And this value vector is coming from the… sorry, value vector also coming from the input sequence. Query vector, it is coming from the…
Sunny Savita: Query vector is coming from where? From the output sequence. Now, tell me, guys, what is the meaning of the key query and value?
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the key… query…
Sunny Savita: And value, right? Here is the value. So what this key inquiry is doing?
Sunny Savita: what this key and query is doing. So, using the key, basically.
Sunny Savita: What we are trying to do, we are trying to… see, we are checking with this… we are talking about the squaring key, so we are trying to find out the similarity between this vector, right?
Sunny Savita: We're trying to get the similarity score, but…
Sunny Savita: We are just talking verbally that what this key and query is doing. So, based on this key, actually, we are going to be
Sunny Savita: We are going to be retrieved, or we are going to be extract some information, okay? Based on… we have a key, sorry, we have a query, and we have a key. Now, we're talking about a dictionary. With a dictionary example, I can explain you better. So, let's say this is my dictionary, okay? A is equal to what? A is equal to A.
Sunny Savita: This is what is my 1, and here what I can do, I can keep B, and this is what? This is 2, right? So, let's say if I'm going to be right like this, this is what? This is my X, let's say, okay? X. Now, here, if I'm writing, this, X and A,
Sunny Savita: Right? So guys, this is what, tell me. This is what.
Sunny Savita: This is what… this is mine.
Sunny Savita: This is my key, right? And this entire thing, basically, it is what? We are going to be… extract something. Now, we are retrieving the value, right? We are getting something after writing this key.
Sunny Savita: Okay, over here, and this is going to become my query. So, we are going to be extract something.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, in the same way, basically, we have a key, which is asking something, okay? We have a key and query. This query, basically, it's asking something to this key, and we are retrieving some information. That's a whole sort of an agenda. That's a whole sort of idea between this query and key.
Sunny Savita: So, this is the value which we are passing to the cross-encoder, and how this is being processed. So, here I have hum, those, ha.
Sunny Savita: And now, here I have what? WQ, which I am going to be multiplied with this, and I'm getting this, Q, okay? Q, Q. Now, what I'm doing with this query vector.
Sunny Savita: query vector of this, hum, those, hey, I'm going to be multiplied with the key vector. Okay, so I'm getting what? I'm getting the similarity weight. So this is what is my similarity weight, S1, S2, and S3.
Sunny Savita: I'm passing it to the softmax function. This is my softmax function, okay? And this is what… this is the complete calculation is being happened. After the softmax function, it is the same one. And finally, we are getting the contextual vector.
Sunny Savita: So this is the process, basically, which is happening inside the cross attention. Now, tell me, guys, if you will revise, will you be able to understand this entire thing or not? Just let me know in the chat. If yes, so that we can proceed with a mask attention, okay?
Sunny Savita: Just go through with this entire notes again, you will be able to get it, guys, okay?
Sunny Savita: with the input and output centers of the different length. Yeah, it will work in the same, you know, Mohan Kumar. You can, see, if we have a different length also, it will work in the same way, right?
Sunny Savita: let's say we have a 4 word inside the Hindi, and 3 words inside the English, okay? The calculation would be same over here, over there as well, right?
Sunny Savita: So, let's understand the mask attention, guys. Can we go ahead with the mask attention now, or should I take a 2-minute break, quick water break? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: So that, we can understand this mask self-attention.
Sunny Savita: No, not tomorrow, guys. We'll complete today only. We have a time.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so guys, I'm giving you the… I'm giving you the break, I'm giving you the 2-minute of break, okay? Or 3 minute of break, after that, we'll start with the mass self-attention, okay? So let's take a quick water break.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so can we understand, the mask self-attention now? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Just give me quick confirmation so that we can understand it, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, read the definition of the mask self-attention, or what I have written over here.
Sunny Savita: Mass self-attention is a type of the self-attention where future tokens are blocked so that each token can only attend to itself and the previous token, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, what is the meaning of it, and why we are doing it? Let's understand that part now.
Sunny Savita: So, you know, guys, see, whenever we are talking about the decoder side, okay? So, for that, guys, we'll have to understand couple of things, let's understand that.
Sunny Savita: So, here is what? Here is the… transformer.
Sunny Savita: architecture, okay? I can take a snap of it, and I can keep it with me just a second.
Sunny Savita: So this is what, guys? This is the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say we are passing anything to this transformer.
Sunny Savita: First, what we are doing, we are doing a training, right?
Sunny Savita: So, if you are passing anything to this transformer, what I'm passing is, I'm passing, V… R… Friend.
Sunny Savita: Now here, output would be hum.
Sunny Savita: dosed.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this was my sentence now.
Sunny Savita: V.
Sunny Savita: R?
Sunny Savita: Friend.
Sunny Savita: And then, this is my output hum.
Sunny Savita: dosed, huh?
Sunny Savita: Right? So, whenever we train this transformer, we perform the supervised training, no?
Sunny Savita: So it is a supervised rating.
Sunny Savita: What is the meaning of the supervised training? Can anyone tell me in the chat?
Sunny Savita: So the meaning of the supervised training means we will be having one supervisor, okay?
Sunny Savita: We will be having one supervisor, means we will be having the output inside the data.
Sunny Savita: So this is the input, this is the output.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this output is called my supervisor. It is supervising me.
Sunny Savita: Okay? It is also called the label data.
Sunny Savita: It is also called what? It is also called the label data. Now, over here, guys, see, we'll be passing inputs over here. This is my input.
Sunny Savita: And we'll be passing output from here. This is my output.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, this output, actually, I think you understand about the cross attention. This is clear, guys, this one.
Sunny Savita: If you will look into this particular architecture, so here you can see we have two arrows.
Sunny Savita: So, what is this 2 arrow? Can anyone tell me? This 2 arrow, actually, it is talking of… it is… it is showing.
Sunny Savita: Key and value.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and this one arrow, this one arrow it is showing, Query.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This one arrow is showing the query.
Sunny Savita: So if you're talking about this arrow and this arrow, so it is showing key and value, and this one arrow is showing the
Sunny Savita: query value. Is it clear why the two arrow is here and why the one arrow is from there?
Sunny Savita: Got it. Now, before that, okay, so after… see, before this cross-attention, guys, you will find out this mask self-attention, this one.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's see what is happening inside the mass self-attention. Okay, and what is the idea behind that? This one. So, what is being passed to the mass self-attention?
Sunny Savita: We are passing this hum dose time.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This one. So we are passing this particular sentence to the mass cell potential.
Sunny Savita: So how it will look like if we are passing that?
Sunny Savita: So we're passing that, guys, how it will look like? It will look like this, okay? So I can, write over here.
Sunny Savita: Hum.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: those… Huh?
Sunny Savita: And what I'm going to find out, guys, I'm going to find out the contextual vector of it, contextual embedding.
Sunny Savita: The goal of the attention is nothing? To find out the contextual embedding.
Sunny Savita: So here is W11, multiply with what?
Sunny Savita: V of up… Sorry. Hum. Not up.
Sunny Savita: V of HUM, then… here, W12.
Sunny Savita: multiply V of… Tell me, guys, those.
Sunny Savita: and plus W, 1, 3, V of what?
Sunny Savita: V of what? Tell me, guys, V of? Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, here also, W21, V of R, sorry, hum, plus W22… We off those.
Sunny Savita: plus W, 2, 3, with V of half, okay?
Sunny Savita: Then here, W31, with V of… Hum?
Sunny Savita: plus W32V of… endorsed.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: plus W23 with V off.
Sunny Savita: So this is what is my contextual embedding. Tell me, guys, is it clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: No, not inside the mask attention, okay? If we're talking about the mask self-attention, then everything will go from this, output only. Nothing is coming from the encoder side. If you will look into the mask attention, are you able to see this mask attention?
Sunny Savita: Just see the mask attention.
Sunny Savita: From where all these arrows are coming? This one, this one, and this one.
Sunny Savita: This is coming from the output only, no? This one.
Sunny Savita: And what is my output? So this is my output.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Got it, guys? Yes or no?
Sunny Savita: Is it getting clear to all of you?
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, if you will look into the cross-attention, this particular blog, from where all the inputs and output… sorry, from where all the inputs is coming, so this two input is coming from the…
Sunny Savita: This two input is coming from where? From the encoder side, and this one input is coming from the, decoder side, okay? This key and value vector is a 2-input from the encoder side.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Is it clear?
Sunny Savita: Okay, now over here, guys, see?
Sunny Savita: So, what we have? We have this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? We have to find out the contextual embedding of it, and this data, actually, it is being processed inside the mask self-attention layer.
Sunny Savita: Mask?
Sunny Savita: Self.
Sunny Savita: Attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Where it is being passed, guys, it is being passed from the… sorry, it is being passed inside the mass cell potential layer.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, if you will look into the definition, what we are doing, what is the definition? The definition is simple. Mass self-attention, actually, it is a type of the self-attention where future tokens are blocked so that
Sunny Savita: Each token can only attend to itself and previous token, okay? Now, I told you one thing, guys, if we're talking about the decoder, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, how the decode… see, we're talking about the encoder and decoder, transformer architecture. So, at the time of the training, it is parallel.
Sunny Savita: At the time of the training, it is parallel.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Means the decoder is parallelly passing the data.
Sunny Savita: This decoder is parallelly passing the data.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? Ms.
Sunny Savita: the self-attention block, the self-attention block is parallelly passing the data, yes or no? So, guys, let's say, if we wanted to translate this sentence.
Sunny Savita: The sentence is, we… R…
Sunny Savita: friend, okay? So this is my input, guys, which I wanted to… what I wanted to do, guys. I wanted to translate. So tell me, guys, if we are passing this sentence, if we wanted to translate this sentence, so what will be the first word over there? What will be the first word, while it is going to be predict? So the first word is going to be this
Sunny Savita: hum, right?
Sunny Savita: Then, at the second time frame.
Sunny Savita: the word is going to be this, hum and dost, okay? And then, the final word for this one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? For this hair, it's going to be humdose hair, right? This one.
Sunny Savita: So what I wanted to say over here, I wanted to say, if I'm passing this sentence, we are friends, okay, and I'm just looking into the contextual embedding of this one, Hum, then why we are showing this data, this data, to the model earlier.
Sunny Savita: If we are… if we are onto this stage, those, we just have to showcase the data till here, hum and those. Why we are showing this future data to the model, this one.
Sunny Savita: This is the future data, okay? This is what… this is the future data. Now, let's say if we are at… if we are at this particular stage, then we can show this hum.
Sunny Savita: we, sorry, hum, those, ha, okay? So this is my input sentence, we are friends, and let's see if I'm going to be translated, okay? If I'm going to be translated using the decoder. So, what decoder will, predict? Decoder will predict, hum, those, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say we are passing a data, guys, right? So, for this particular vector, the contextual vector for this hum, this is a future word. This is going to be a future word, those and hair, right? For this DOST guys, hum and those is fine, but this is going to be a future word, ha, okay? Let me write hair over here.
Sunny Savita: Now, if we're talking about this hai, so for hai only, this is going to be a final word. This, this is going to be a, like, final equation. Hum, those, and hey, okay? So, what is the issue over here? So, guys, over here, see,
Sunny Savita: Over here, if we're talking about the mask self-attention, Just focus now.
Sunny Savita: It is similar to the self-attention only.
Sunny Savita: Self-attention.
Sunny Savita: If we're talking about the mass self-attention.
Sunny Savita: It is similar to the self-attention only. Everything is equal to self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: But over here, just to stop the data leakage, okay, just to stop the overfitting, we have a masking concept also.
Sunny Savita: Now, we're talking about the transformer training, right?
Sunny Savita: So we're talking about the transformer training. So everything is being passed in a parallel in the transformer, right? So everything we are passing in the parallel in the transformer, okay? And if we are going to be generate the contextual embedding of this hum, those, then hey, right?
Sunny Savita: Hum, actually, it belonged to hum, those things, right? But inside the training, guys, this hum is fine till here, right?
Sunny Savita: But this is going to be a future word for the hum. For those, hum and those is fine. This is going to be a future word.
Sunny Savita: this is fine, okay? The complete equation is fine. So, if you are showing a future word to the model, so the time of the training is fine, but at the time of the prediction, it could be a disaster, right? So, this issue is called the data leakage.
Sunny Savita: data leakage.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This issue is also called the overfitting of the model.
Sunny Savita: Overfitting of the model. Now, can anyone tell me what is the meaning of the overfitting?
Sunny Savita: What is the meaning of the overfitting? Overfitting is nothing. Overfitting means at the training, at the time of the training.
Sunny Savita: The accuracy is going to be very, very high.
Sunny Savita: Accuracy is going to be very, very high, but at the time of the testing.
Sunny Savita: But the time of the testing, guys, the accuracy is going to be low.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this is called the overfitting.
Sunny Savita: Data leakage means you are showing the data to the model in an early phase only.
Sunny Savita: Okay, which was not required, means model might, get some data leakage over here, right? So, overfitting in the data leakage was too problem. Because of that, guys, this mask self-attention was introduced. So, what was the concept behind that? The concept, basically, was very, very simple.
Sunny Savita: So, we will not show this future data to the model, means this particular data
Sunny Savita: We are not going to be showed to the model. Now, how we will do that? This one? So, we will make it 0. In this equation, we are going to make it zero, this one. In this equation, we are going to make this 0.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this was the overall idea behind the mask self-attention, means we are going to be masking those words which will come into the future.
Sunny Savita: At the time of the training, from the decoder end. So, we will mask those words, okay, inside the equation, which will come in the future. The idea is clear to all of you, tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: Yes? Okay? So, let's understand what will happen over here. So, guys, you know, whenever we are going to be multiply, how this thing will possible. Let's understand that part over here, okay?
Sunny Savita: No, see you guys.
Sunny Savita: Just, just focus for 2 more minutes, and I'm going to be concluded, don't worry.
Sunny Savita: So, let's say… Oh, just a second. This is the one.
Sunny Savita: Mask self-attention, yeah.
Sunny Savita: So let me insert one more page. I can explain you that completely, you will be able to get it.
Sunny Savita: Now, let's say, guys, we have, 3 words, okay?
Sunny Savita: So… We are friends.
Sunny Savita: How? Those things?
Sunny Savita: So this will be passed to the decoder.
Sunny Savita: Yes or no? Tell me, guys.
Sunny Savita: Just say yes or no, okay? We are into the final stage now. Now, over here, guys, what will happen? So, we are having 3 weights, okay?
Sunny Savita: So let's say we have an embedding of it, hum those there.
Sunny Savita: We have an embedding of it, right? So this is our embedding.
Sunny Savita: Now, this embedding, actually, it's going to be multiply with what? This embedding, actually, it's going to be multiply with…
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: It's going to be multiplied with the weights, okay? So let's say we have a weights over here, this is my weights.
Sunny Savita: This is what? This is my weights. Okay?
Sunny Savita: And this is what? This is my weights. Now, how many weights will be there? 3 weights would be there, right? So, QKV would be there, so QKV. Now, I have 3 weights, let me draw in this different way, so that you will get it. So, this is going to be my first weight, here is what? Here is my…
Sunny Savita: First weight, forced weight, okay?
Sunny Savita: Let me draw some other weight also, so this is the second one and third one.
Sunny Savita: The second one and the third one, okay? This is the second one and the third one. So we have these weights, guys. This is my WQ, K, and V, right? I'm just drawing a verbal architecture, guys, so that you can understand. Just, I will take two more minutes to explain this concept.
Sunny Savita: Okay, 3 weights, it's having.
Sunny Savita: Now, over here also, it is having a weights, so this is a weights.
Sunny Savita: This is the weights, and this is the weights. Now, what will happen, guys? Tell me. So, this is my W, K.
Sunny Savita: WQWB.
Sunny Savita: This is also WK, WQ, and WV. This is also WK, WQ, and WV. Now, what will happen is, here I'll be getting 3 vectors, okay? So, here is what? Here is my
Sunny Savita: Q of R.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, hum. Why I'm writing up again and again?
Sunny Savita: So, this is going to be what? K of. K of hum, right?
Sunny Savita: So, K of hum… This is going to be.
Sunny Savita: Q of what? Q of?
Sunny Savita: Hum, okay, and this is going to be what? V of hum, right? So this 3 vector I'm getting.
Sunny Savita: query key and value from here, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, what will happen, guys? Same thing will happen over here also.
Sunny Savita: So here, also, we have, K of… Toast?
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, here is what? Q of those.
Sunny Savita: Now, here is also Q of those, right?
Sunny Savita: So, I'll be getting…
Sunny Savita: sorry, KQV. KQ, and this is also going to be V, okay? So let me write over here V.
Sunny Savita: V of what? V of those. Right? Now, over here, guys, what will happen? So, here I'm getting… KQV…
Sunny Savita: KQV, okay?
Sunny Savita: KQV of what? KQB of hi. So here is what K of hi… K off.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, Q of hair, let me write over here, Q of hair… Okay.
Sunny Savita: and V of H, right? So this is the vector. Now, after that, guys, what will happen? Tell me… so we'll be having a multiplication between what? So, let me do the multiplication over here. I can take a metric, so I can showcase in the form of metrics, okay? So, let's say this is my first one.
Sunny Savita: This one. This is my second one, okay? This is my second matrix. Now, what I will be having in the first metrics is… so, let me draw that over here. Guys, it's just a final one, final explanation of the mass self-attention, okay? Let me do it. So, this is what? This is my Q, this is my K.
Sunny Savita: And between, basically, what we have, we have a multiplication, okay? So this is my dot product, let me draw the dot product over here, this one. So this is what? This is my Q of up.
Sunny Savita: There's my queue of Kessie.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This is my Q of hair.
Sunny Savita: Now, it's going to be multiplied with K of R.
Sunny Savita: K of SA, okay?
Sunny Savita: and K of h.
Sunny Savita: Right? So this is going to be a multiplication, okay?
Sunny Savita: I hope you are able to understand.
Sunny Savita: So, not ARP, say, hey, just a second, guys. I think we have a different example. Let me write that, okay? Don't worry, I can write that particular example.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So what I will write over here, I'll write hum, those, hain.
Sunny Savita: So, Q of hum… Q off… toast…
Sunny Savita: and Q of H, right? And here, what I'll be writing, K of, hum.
Sunny Savita: K of those.
Sunny Savita: K of, hey, okay? Now the matrix multiplication will happen. Q is going to be connected with all this 3-1.
Sunny Savita: This is going to be, like, multiplied with all this 3-1, and then this high is going to be multiplied with all this 3-1. It is a vector itself, okay? It is a vector itself. Now, after that, guys, what I'll be getting, so after this particular dot product, I will be getting the metrics. So, what metrics I'll be getting over here?
Sunny Savita: I will be getting the S1, S2, and S3 metrics, okay? So this is what, guys, this is my S1S2, and S3 metrics. So, S11, S12, S13.
Sunny Savita: then S21, S22, S23, then S31, S32, and S33. We are going to be divide this particular value with a DK, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, after that, guys, what I'll do…
Sunny Savita: I'll be passing it from the soft mix.
Sunny Savita: Now, if I'll pass from the soft mix, guys, what I'll be getting…
Sunny Savita: We'll be getting the W1, W2, and W3, so let me draw that also over here.
Sunny Savita: W2, W1, and W3. So, this is the normal self-attention. Now, let me tell you how this, how, basically, this masked self-attention is being performed over here.
Sunny Savita: So, here is a twist, guys, some twist. Let me show you that particular twist, okay, with respect to the mass self-attention. So, here is what? 3, 1, then 3, 2, then 3, 3.
Sunny Savita: Now, what I have, guys, I have these weights, right? So, this is a normal self-attention, which we have derived so far.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Now, if we're talking about the… if we're talking about what, guys? If we're talking about this mass self-attention, so how it is working? Let me show you. So, we have these weights, guys, yes or no? Tell me, do we have these weights? Guys, fast, fast, fast.
Sunny Savita: Final, final, final, okay? So, we have this particular weight, this one. S21, S2 2, S23, then S31, S32, S33. Now, what happened, guys? See, whenever we are scaling this weight.
Sunny Savita: Okay? How we are going to be scale this weight? Using this particular parameter, we are going to be scale it. So what will happen, guys? If we are going to be scale this weight, we will be getting the scaled weight, right? So here is what? Here is my scaled weight.
Sunny Savita: This one. What is my scale bit? Let's say I'm showing with a dash, okay? S1 dash.
Sunny Savita: as this, IS13- S21-S22 dash, as 23- 3-1 dash… 3, 2, dash, and…
Sunny Savita: 33- okay? Now, what we'll do, guys, see, here is a twist.
Sunny Savita: So, we are going to add something inside this particular matrix.
Sunny Savita: Okay, what we are going to be add over here? So, we are going to be add infinite, minus infinite over here, right? So, this value for the first sentence, this is going to be 0. This is going to be minus infinite. Okay, minus infinite. This is going to be 0.
Sunny Savita: Okay, this is going to be what? Minus infinite, right? Now, here I'm going to be at zero. Okay, and this is 0. Now, guys, whenever this data, actually, see what will be the final data? Tell me if I'm going to be at this minus infinite. So, what is going to be a final data, guys? Tell me. So, this is going to be a final data, this one.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: So this is going to be a final data. How I can write the final data? Just so… just focus over here, you will get… so this is going to be a final data, as 11 dash, then it's going to be minus infinite.
Sunny Savita: it's going to be minus infinite. That's here, as 2-1 does, as 22 dash, it's going to be minus infinite. As 31 does, as 32-
Sunny Savita: as 3-3, okay? Now, whenever we pass this particular metrics, whenever we pass this particular metrics to the softmax function, guys.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, guys, Softmax is having…
Sunny Savita: softmax is having that power where this minus infinite, actually, it's going to be converted into the zero. Because if I'm passing any… if I'm passing minus infinite to the softmax function.
Sunny Savita: So it's going to be equal to 0, actually. Okay, you can check out over the internet, over the chat GPT, you will get the same thing.
Sunny Savita: So, what is going to be my final metrics, guys, if I'm passing it to the softmax? So, my final metrics, actually, is going to be what?
Sunny Savita: My final matrix is going to be what, guys? So wherever I will be having… wherever I will be having the minus infinite, it will become what? It will become 0, okay? So this is what, guys? W21, W220. W31, W32,
Sunny Savita: W33.
Sunny Savita: So, guys, for the first sentence, this two-word is going to be mask one. This is the masked one.
Sunny Savita: Okay? For this particular sentence, this word is going to be mask one. For this sentence, we can showcase everything.
Sunny Savita: So, the concept is very, very simple. If we're talking about the mass self-attention, so we are just going to be hide the future word. We are passing a parallel data for the context embedding, so that there will not be any problem of the data leakage, there will not be any problem of the overfitting.
Sunny Savita: There will not be any cheating with the model, okay? And my model will be trained, very efficiently. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. So this is the entire concept of the mask self-attention.
Sunny Savita: Understand, did you understand, guys? Tell me yes or no.
Sunny Savita: So, we are just going to be mask the data, okay?
Sunny Savita: Why we don't mask in a self-attention? Because there we are not going to predict anything, no, right? We're just going to be encode the data. Here is the main prediction part, main training part, in the decoder side, the prediction part, okay?
Sunny Savita: So tell me, guys, how is the explanation of the cross attention and the self… this, mask attention? Did you understand that? I think we have covered every topic, actually. Every topic of what?
Sunny Savita: every topic of the transformer.
Sunny Savita: So, it is just, 45 pages of notes, very, very detailed notes, guys, right?
Sunny Savita: Just go through with this entire notes, you will understand. So, do you want quick revision, guys, of the, and this, trans… of the decoder, of the decoder processing?
Sunny Savita: From tomorrow, guys, we are going to be starting new topic, so don't miss tomorrow's session, right?
Sunny Savita: Linear layer I already discussed, you can check out the previous class.
Sunny Savita: There, I explain you the linear layer, okay?
Sunny Savita: What is a new topic? Fine-tuning, model, API, configuration. Different, different model we'll try to load from the different API, and we'll understand the different, different leaderboard, and what are models we have over there, okay?
Sunny Savita: And what is the role of the transformer in the different, different LLM model? Got it?
Sunny Savita: from the… tomorrow, there will be more coding, yes, from tomorrow, or from next to next class onwards. Because, tomorrow, guys, I will give you the idea of the different, different leaderboards, different, different model, different, different, LLM model, which model is a good one, which model you can use for your solution and all. We'll discuss that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so, I hope, guys, this thing is clear, so let's do one thing, let's take a quick recap of it. So, 2 minute of break, I will explain you this, and then I'll discuss one more thing, that is the inferencing side, okay?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, can we start again, if everyone is there? Let me give you the quick,
Sunny Savita: Let me give you the quick revision so that, understanding will be.
Sunny Savita: Solid, right?
Sunny Savita: So, over here, guys, you can see what is happening.
Sunny Savita: First, this, sentence will be passed as the output sentence, okay? It's a supervised learning. So this is the output sentence, which is going to be passed to the…
Sunny Savita: Tokenization layer, then embedding layer, okay? Then this vector, basically, it's going to be passed to the mask self-attention. Now, tell me, what is the aim of this masked self-attention? Please let me know in the chat, what is the aim of this masked self-attention?
Sunny Savita: What you understood with the smart cell potential?
Sunny Savita: Tell me, guys, what you understand to this mass self-attention. Yeah, so if we are passing our data, if we are passing our data in parallel.
Sunny Savita: Right? What we are doing, guys, we are passing a data in parallel, so don't showcase the data to the model completely, don't showcase the data to the model in the contextual embedding. So, we are going to be… we are going to be restricted to the future token, okay? That is a main aim of the mass self-attention, as simple as that.
Sunny Savita: Now after that, guys, the data is going to be passed through here. This is my, toque, this is my sentence, which I'm getting. Now, here is my layer normalization.
Sunny Savita: And then what I'm getting, guys, I'm passing it from the cross attention. So, we are passing this sentence and this sentence from the cross attention. Now, tell me, guys, from the… from where the key and, key and values are coming in the cross attention.
Sunny Savita: It's coming from the import. Now, we're talking about the query, guys, so the query is coming from where? The query is coming from the…
Sunny Savita: Queries coming from where? Queries coming from the input, guys, okay? Sorry, queries coming from the output, key and value from coming from the input. Now, after that, guys, what will happen? We are getting this normalized data, okay?
Sunny Savita: Now, this data will be… we are going to be passed… where? We are going to be passed to the neural network. So, this is the neural network, and we are getting this.
Sunny Savita: So, till here, guys, what I'll be getting, I'll be getting my, process data, okay? Now, here is my Y1, this is my JAD norm, again, we are doing a residual connection, and then, again, we are passing a… passing it from the layer normalization, and then I'm getting this particular metrics. This is my final process data.
Sunny Savita: Okay? 4 cross 512. Now, this particular data is passing from the linear head, okay?
Sunny Savita: From the linear head. See, this is the… this is what, guys, this is my linear layer.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, what is the size of the data? What is the size of the vector?
Sunny Savita: The size of the vector is going to be 512.
Sunny Savita: Now, just… just tell me over here…
Sunny Savita: From where this 512 is coming.
Sunny Savita: From where this 512 is coming, guys? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Who is deciding the size of the 5… who is deciding the size of this vector?
Sunny Savita: Which is 512. It is… Word-to-back model.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This size could be anything, no? Can this size be 1024?
Sunny Savita: 2048.
Sunny Savita: Okay, or 3012.
Sunny Savita: This size could be anything, no? Tell me, guys, yes or no. Is this size could be anything? Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, just tell me, guys, let's say if my size is 512,
Sunny Savita: And if this particular vector, if I'm passing from the softmax.
Sunny Savita: how many probability I'll be getting.
Sunny Savita: how many probability value I will be getting.
Sunny Savita: Tell me.
Sunny Savita: How many probability value I will be getting if I'm passing this 512 vector from the softmax. Tell me, how many probability value I will be getting.
Sunny Savita: array, 512 probability value I will be getting.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Now, how I will be find out the prediction from here?
Sunny Savita: From this 512 probability value.
Sunny Savita: which… which… which feature is representing to which word? How I will get to know. Mathlab, mujay kese pata chalega ki…
Sunny Savita: feature, con se vertical blong kara hai, how I will get to know. So, here only this linear projection come. Up they go. Now, see over here, what is the use of the linear projection? See?
Sunny Savita: Let's say if we have this 512 vector.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: 512 vector.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: This is the size of the vector, 512. Now, tell me, guys, the data, basically, which we took, how those things? What is the vocabulary size over here?
Sunny Savita: What is the vocabulary size of it? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: hum those things. Now, what is a vocabulary size? 3, right? One is a SOS word, we can con… we can conclude that also, okay? So let's say this is the 512 vector, now here is a…
Sunny Savita: 4-1.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: 1, 2, 3.
Sunny Savita: So this is going to be multiplied with this one.
Sunny Savita: And the final vector which we'll be getting, the output vector which we'll be getting, okay, the output vector which we'll be getting after multiplying with this one.
Sunny Savita: It is having only 4 dimension.
Sunny Savita: So this linear projection, what it is doing, You see, this vector, actually, Size of the vocabulary.
Sunny Savita: Size of the vocabulary.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, tell me, guys, how many… how many, how many values we are getting in the final vector? Tell me, this final vector.
Sunny Savita: 4 value na, 4 value we are getting na, right? Now here, we are passing this to the softmax.
Sunny Savita: Yes, we are passing this to the sort max. How many sort max value we are getting? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: How many softmax value we are getting? 4 value, so this 4 value, actually, it is representing to this 4 words, this 4 words.
Sunny Savita: So, vector, actually, it is not going to be represent, right, to this one.
Sunny Savita: Once we'll… see, vector, this vector is not going to represent the actual size with this one. Actual size of this one, the output one.
Sunny Savita: Whenever we are going to be multiplied with a linear projection, this is a linear projection, the size actually is going to be equal to this vocabulary. Then, whatever vector we are getting, that actually representing the size of this particular data, this one.
Sunny Savita: And then we are passing it from the softmax, and we are getting a final prediction. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Tell me. Is it getting clear to all of you? So that's a use of the linear, okay? You can understand in a more better way that, okay?
Sunny Savita: I think, the concept is clear, so… training is clear. Tell me, guys, training part is clear.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now we have a final one that's going to be a prediction. Now, how the prediction is going to be happened?
Sunny Savita: Let me explain it that also, okay?
Sunny Savita: Just a second, guys, let me drink some water, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, so the final is going to be a prediction, how I can show you that.
Sunny Savita: Oh… Are you fed up with today's session?
Sunny Savita: Yes, projection is just a matrix multiplication. You are right, Mohan. Okay?
Sunny Savita: No, that is not a learnable parameter. That's not going to be a learnable parameter.
Sunny Savita: Fine. So, guys, if we're talking about the predictions, so how the prediction will happen. See, prediction is going to be happened in an autoregressive manner.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Autoregressive manner.
Sunny Savita: So, let's say, here is what, here is my encoder site.
Sunny Savita: I can take the encoder. Just a second. Listen.
Sunny Savita: So, let's take an encoder form here.
Sunny Savita: This is my encoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Now, what will happen, guys? Let's say this is my encoder.
Sunny Savita: Here.
Sunny Savita: So this will get a sentence.
Sunny Savita: So my sentence is being passed from here. I'm talking about the prediction, okay? So I'm talking about a prediction, and the sentence will be passing over here, inside this encoder.
Sunny Savita: What is the sentence, guys? Sentence is V… R?
Sunny Savita: Right.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, at the first time step, what will happen? See, this,
Sunny Savita: This one, no? This is my decoder, okay?
Sunny Savita: This decoder, basically, the decoder will be here.
Sunny Savita: Okay?
Sunny Savita: This decoder will be here. This is my decoder.
Sunny Savita: And decoder will be here. This is my decoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: This is my decoder, and this decoder will be here also.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: So the prediction will be happening in an autoregressive fashion. Now, whatever vector is being generated, let's say this is the vector, basically, which is being generated over here, this one.
Sunny Savita: Alright? Now, the final vector, final metrics, actually, final metrics, final vector, it is coming over here, it's coming here only. Okay? This one.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? Now, whatever thing… see, here, what I'll be passing? The first word, which is going to be passed over here, that is SOS, right?
Sunny Savita: A start of sentence. Now, what it is going to be predict, guys, tell me? It's going to be predict hum.
Sunny Savita: This humid is going to be predicted a timestamp of 1. T is equal to 1.
Sunny Savita: Then what will happen, guys? This particular input is going again over here.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Now, what is being passed over here in the second time stem? SOS.
Sunny Savita: Then, it is passing this hump.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Then what will happen, guys? It is going to be predict.
Sunny Savita: DOST.
Sunny Savita: It's going to be predict those as t is equal to 2.
Sunny Savita: Then, guys, what will happen? This particular output is being passed over here.
Sunny Savita: So, 3WD is being passed, SOS.
Sunny Savita: Then, hum.
Sunny Savita: Then dosed.
Sunny Savita: Okay? This one.
Sunny Savita: Then, this input is being passed, and after that, guys, what we'll be getting? We are… we are getting, basically, the final word, that is hai.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: At time is time 3.
Sunny Savita: Now, along with that, see, in every transformer, In every decoder, basically.
Sunny Savita: This will be passed, okay?
Sunny Savita: This will be passed.
Sunny Savita: So this is the structure of what? This is the structure of the inferencing, actually. So this is the structure of the inferencing. In this autoregressive manner, in this autoregressive fashion.
Sunny Savita: In the autoregressive fashion, guys, this transformer is going to be performed the… this transformer is going to do that training. Sorry, inferencing, prediction. Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So, this is the inferencing side. Autoregressive mode of transformer, autoregressive, inferencing, okay?
Sunny Savita: Inferencing, I can write over here, inferencing.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys? Yes or no? So the training will happen parallelly, whatever I've shown you over here, parallelly, and the prediction will happen like this only.
Sunny Savita: prediction will happen like this only. Getting my point? So, if we're talking about… see, in the… if we're talking about the training guys, in the training, we have performed the masking technique, right? So, if we're talking about the prediction, guys, with the prediction, you can see, we are just showing this particular data, till here only we are showing the data to the model at time stamp 2.
Sunny Savita: Getting my point, guys. If we're talking about the time is time 3 now, over here, you can see we are just showing the data till here, and the future word, it is going to be predict. And the same thing, basically, we were hiding in the time of the training, so that it is not going to do the overfitting, actually.
Sunny Savita: Understood, guys? Yes or no? Is it getting clear to all of you how this, transformer is being, sorry, how this transformer is, basically generating a final response?
Sunny Savita: Okay? How the data flow during the inference, you know, same way it flows, no?
Sunny Savita: We pass the input, okay, in a same way, basically, in whatever way I've shown you now, in the same way it will be flowing, okay?
Sunny Savita: means first we'll generate a vector, it will again come to the same model at the time stamp 2. Then it will come to the same model, same architecture at time stamp 2. So it will be an iteration, it will be a loop, actually, okay?
Sunny Savita: Got it.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Five. So, tell me, guys, how is the session of the transformer? It is just up to you now, how you're going to revise it. If you have any doubt, you can ask me. And I think more than that, more than this one, no one is going to be asked you, okay? And see, guys, there is a difference between recording and between the live session, okay?
Sunny Savita: In live session, actually, we are a little restricted with the, like, the bigger topic and all, but yeah, we are giving our best so that none of the topic is going to be remaining, okay? And believe me, guys, more than this one, no one is going to be asked you in the interview, even.
Sunny Savita: If you know this much of concept, I think that is well and good, right? So let me give you this entire notes, to all of you, just a second.
Sunny Savita: transformer… Complete.
Sunny Savita: Good.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Transformer Complete Guide, I'm going to be saving.
Sunny Savita: And then I'll give you the…
Sunny Savita: So, from tomorrow, guys, we are going to be starting a new chapter, right? And, believe me, guys, now that thing is going to be very interesting. So, so far, actually, the thing was, like, a little complicated, or a little boring and all.
Sunny Savita: But now the thing is going to be a little interesting, so even you will also enjoy, and I will also enjoy while I'll be teaching you.
Sunny Savita: So, be with me for next, 2 to 3 more months, guys. You will understand most of the part of the generative AI, okay? And then we'll focus on the project side, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. So, I'm going to save… I'm going to save this entire notes, and I'll be providing you that. Okay, so when you are doing a revision, you are… you can follow the same notes, okay? So, let me keep it here.
Sunny Savita: In the folder…
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I pushed the changes over the GitHub, you can take it from there, okay?
Sunny Savita: Please check with the GitHub, sorry, please check the GitHub repository, you will get all the changes over there.
Sunny Savita: It is class 14th now. Let me reach a… rename it a bit.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I think it is there. Please check now, you will get it. Just,
Sunny Savita: Go and check the GitHub, guys.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, sure, Asis, I will update that. I will update after this class.
Sunny Savita: Now, one more thing, guys, just a second. I think,
Sunny Savita: You can go through the interview questions also.
Sunny Savita: So, just check out with this PDF. I will update this PDF.
Sunny Savita: See, here you will get all the interview questions related to the…
Sunny Savita: Related to neural network, transformer, and even with a generative AI also. It is a very good, PDF. Actually, I launched this, I launched one competition on my YouTube channel.
Sunny Savita: I think 4 to 5 months back, or maybe, like, 6 months ago.
Sunny Savita: So, there I shared around 100-plus questions with respect to the generative AI, okay? With my real-time experience. Even I have more questions I will share in the future classes. So, here, you will find out, so many questions related to the neural network, CNN and all, and even with the transformer, okay?
Sunny Savita: So you can go through with this, you can go through with this PDF, you can understand, you can check what all questions, this PDF having related to the transformer and all, and please,
Sunny Savita: revise the transformer from here as well, okay? So, see. So many concepts you will get over here, so many interview questions you will get.
Sunny Savita: Right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, I'm sharing in the chat itself.
Sunny Savita: Where is this PDF? I'm sharing that, degrees, okay, wait.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I shared in the chat, guys, you can take it from here. Once you got it, please do confirm, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, I'm updating over the GitHub also, just a sec.
Sunny Savita: So, will you go through with discussions?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I pushed all the changes and all over the GitHub, you can take it from there, okay?
Sunny Savita: Just refresh this. Just refresh the GitHub. You will get…
Sunny Savita: Once you got it, just give me quick confirmation so that I can close the session.
Sunny Savita: Okay, fine. So, thank you guys, you can drop the session if you don't have any doubt.
Sunny Savita: If you have any doubt, guys, be there. I will be taking a doubt session now.
Sunny Savita: And then, guys, from tomorrow onwards, we are going to be starting a new topic, okay? So this is more than enough in the transformer, if you are able to understand at least this much of concept with this particular derivation.
Sunny Savita: So, what is the best way of doing it? So, whatever 5 to 6 session you have now, related to the transformer.
Sunny Savita: Just watch one by one, take open my notes, create your own notes over the book, okay? Write each and everything inside the book, and then keep it handy. So whenever you are going in an interview, just revise the transformer concept from there itself. That's it.
Sunny Savita: And take a help of the chat GPT and all, even you can check with the other session. Even Chris has also uploaded one session, other YouTube also, you will find out. So you can revise the concept from there as well, okay?
Sunny Savita: Because it's a theoretical thing, so as many… as much as you will, as much as you will read, as much as you will explore, you will get the concept that much only, okay?
Sunny Savita: So, fine, from tomorrow, guys, we are going to start a new topic. Until thank you, bye, take care. If you have doubt, be here, guys. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, after 3 minutes, I'll start the doubt session, right?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, so let's start with the doubt session. If you have any doubt, you can raise the hand.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Abhishek, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Okay, Abhishek is not having a doubt. Vivek, what's a doubt, Vivek?
Vivek: Yeah, hi Sunny, can you hear me?
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Vivek: So…
Sunny Savita: Please go.
Vivek: Yeah, Sunny, so after this, what will be the, say, say, for example, I'm practicing as well.
Vivek: Right, so if I have to start integrating it to our applications, so what is your roadmap? Can you please help me to understand that?
Vivek: Say, for example, we are working in Azure Cloud environment.
Vivek: So, how we can start integrating?
Sunny Savita: Integrate, sorry.
Vivek: So, these learnings, right? So, I mean, how we have to build these projects now?
Sunny Savita: Transformer, you're asking.
Vivek: Right. I mean, say, for example, yeah, Transformer on whatever we have learned so far, right?
Sunny Savita: No, so far, actually, we haven't learned on that level, where you can integrate in the project and all, okay? So, Transformer is a base architecture of every LLM.
Sunny Savita: So, those LLM, actually, it is created on very huge infrastructure, so we cannot do it, right? But yeah, we can simulate one small training, so that code I will share tomorrow, you can go through with it, and you can do some practical with that, okay?
Sunny Savita: But for the, real project, for the real RAG or agentic project, you will have to wait for a few more, means weeks, okay? So just wait for a few more weeks, then you can, integrate that learning in the real-time project and all.
Vivek: So, you're going to explain some projects also, right? On real-time basis?
Sunny Savita: Haha, project also, no? Right? Project is a part of every course, in whatever course we are launching, we are including the project there, okay?
Vivek: Yeah, okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Vivek: Thanks.
Sunny Savita: Okay, Vivek is done, now next doubt is, ashorea, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Shorya, do you have any doubt? If yes, please…
Aiswarya: Am I audible now?
Aiswarya: Yeah, you're okay. Sir, I was, talking in mute. I always get this interview question for GPT and what, this bi-directional and unidirectional, this prediction.
Aiswarya: And I read a lot about her, but I actually never understood, like, what does, like, the example does. Like, for some pointers, I have just, like, byhearted some pointers just for the sake of interviews.
Aiswarya: But I never understood that concept, so I just wanted to ask you about it, if you could explain.
Sunny Savita: No, this, BERT, actually, it is a SIMS encoder, okay? And this GPT is just a decoder, so if anyone is asking you that thing now, you can, explain the encoder and the decoder working. Got it?
Aiswarya: But what is this unidirectional and bi-directional end in that? Like, they… when they.
Sunny Savita: Unidirectional… see, unidirectional, bi-directional is nothing, it is just a way of providing a data.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Okay. Unidirectional means you are passing a data in a one direction. Let's say, if I'm saying.
Sunny Savita: My name is Sunny. You are passing the data in the same direction. Bidirectional means what? You are passing my name is Sunny from left to right, and you are passing my name is Sonny from right to left, okay? So, that is bidirectional. So, for understanding this concept, what you can do, you can understand about the bidirectional LSTM first.
Sunny Savita: Okay, how does it work? Why directional STM and RNN. Once you will have that understanding, same you can apply to the encoder part. Okay, and if… so anyone is asking you the bot with… to you, you can explain the encoder, as well as this bi-directional working. Got it?
Aiswarya: Okay, okay, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yep.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, the next is, the next is Naveen. Naveen, please go ahead.
NAVEEN G: SMU.
Sunny Savita: Unable to download… I uploaded all the Gitna. So, Rupa, are you not seeing my GitHub? Please check with my GitHub repository, you will get that, okay?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, novid, please do it.
NAVEEN G: Hi, Sunny. So, my question is, when we are passing the data into the decoder state, so we are passing with the… in the tick state, if we take an example, how are you? So, that…
NAVEEN G: how it will be… we are passing into the decoder, like, example, whatever we have steps done in the encoder, we can get the only the vector form of English text. So, how do we get the indie text to pass it on the decoder side?
Sunny Savita: No, I didn't get your question.
NAVEEN G: Actually, we are passing on the decoder input state in the text, right?
NAVEEN G: So…
NAVEEN G: So, how do we get the in the text before getting any output value? How do we… we are passing the value to the decoder?
Sunny Savita: Okay, okay, you are saying, how, at the final output, how will we be getting the Hindi text, is it?
NAVEEN G: No, no, no. I'm asking that, in decoder part, in decoder part, we are starting to passing the data to the decoder.
NAVEEN G: the data will be in the text, right? You… you return in the notes, right? So, I can show you on the…
Sunny Savita: Huh, huh.
NAVEEN G: Yeah. So, how do we get that in the text? Like, where can we get that in the text? Before in the getting in encoder… encoder section, or, like, how do we get that in the text?
Sunny Savita: Okay, that index, basically, it will be inside your training data, no?
Sunny Savita: Training data means you will get some data, right?
Sunny Savita: And in the training data itself, that Hindi text will be available, so whenever you will be having the data, input and output, both columns would be there.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so whenever you try… you train the model, you pass, this, English text to the encoder and Hindi text to the decoder, or any other language, actually. Got it?
NAVEEN G: Okay, actually, I heard about, when we pass the data to the softmax, so the softmax will be converting, from the English word to the Hindi word, and it will getting the response.
Sunny Savita: No, no, no.
NAVEEN G: Right, so…
Sunny Savita: soft, soft, soft max, actually, just giving me the probability. At the end, I have shown, if you will check out with my notes, at the end, I have shown. So, whatever vector we are having, so that particular vector we are passing to the max, and it's providing you the probability.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
NAVEEN G: Fucker.
Sunny Savita: So, that particular probability, basically, we are going to be mapped to every word.
Sunny Savita: Right? To every word, and that is our final, probability value, the softmax probability value, and we are comparing with the actual output that, okay?
NAVEEN G: Hello, microphone. Thank you.
Sunny Savita: No.
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yes, Ali, what stood out?
Sunny Savita: Thaloli, if you have any doubt, please go ahead.
ali: Hello. Am I audible, sir?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, you are audible.
ali: Yeah, Sir, my question was on,
ali: in the transformer blog, when we… when any of the words which we are, getting converted into embedding, that is through Word2V. I think I have seen you have mentioned a couple of times that it is done through Word2V.
ali: I think that is, you're referring to paper, or…
ali: That is happened in paper also, right?
Sunny Savita: No, it is a word-to-back lookup, not a word-to-back model.
Sunny Savita: Okay, I explained to you what is the meaning of that. You can check out with my previous session, you will get that meaning, okay?
ali: Okay, yeah, yeah, my question is, based on that, means, like, in real scenario.
ali: The trans… any of the transfer module will not use that tool, right? It…
ali: It will use that embedding. It will initialize some embedding, and it will train that stunt, right?
Sunny Savita: Yeah, so that embedding only, we are getting from that word-to-back lookup now, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay, see, word-to-back trained model is something else. Word2Bag lookup means it is just a, lookup of the model. It is not trained. Someone capped that, input layer, headl layer, and the output layer over there. We are just getting an embedding out of that, numbers out of that, and we are using that inside the transformer, okay?
ali: Okay, okay, okay, so the sole purpose is to convert that tokens into the… Numbers into it.
Sunny Savita: Correct, correct, correct. Our main purpose is… yeah, anyhow, you can… in whatever way you are going to be converted, the main aim just to convert the token, that's it.
Sunny Savita: Into the numbers, okay?
ali: Oh, okay, okay. Okay, and sort of, like, in future, which we'll be, we will be studying the RAG model.
ali: So there are… there is something called RAG, and now something coming as a vector-less RAG.
ali: So, .
Sunny Savita: Thank you.
ali: We covered in our, in our curriculum.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, yeah, I can cover one solution, you can… I'll show you that in that module, okay?
ali: Okay, okay. So, just wanted a basic understanding. Vectorless rank means, like, it will not convert, this, into…
Sunny Savita: No, we are not going to be, like, store that, you know, proper numbers and a typical vector databases and all, okay? In a different way, basically, we are going to be retrieve the information, that's it. That's the simplest meaning of it, okay?
ali: Okay, sir, okay, sir. Sir, my third question is based on, today's, today's lecture. I got a little bit of confusion on the last part.
ali: Where you have been, where you are,
ali: Where I think you were,
ali: There are some, encoder, and there are four, four decoders are there, and all the…
Sunny Savita: No, it is not a 4 decoder, actually, it is the same decoder on the different time stamp.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
ali: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Actually, it is a recurrency. You know, RNN, recurrent neural network. In the recurrent neural network, actually, what happened? So, we pass the data on a timestamp basis. So, those timestamps, actually, it is not a different layer. Sorry, it is not a different decoder or a different layer. It is the same layer, which is working on a different, different timestamp.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so let's say, if I can show you that, see, this is the… this is the one you are talking about, not this one.
Sunny Savita: This one, right? So 1, 2, 3… this is not a different layer. This is not a different decoder, actually. It is the same decoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay, same layer, on a different, different time stamp. Just say, Ab Milko Bolo, there is sunny, right?
ali: So…
Sunny Savita: Sunny is in morning, sunny is in evening, sunny is in afternoon. So, it's the same sunny, not 3 sunny. Same sunny, you know, different, different time stamp.
Sunny Savita: So, at T is equal to 1, same decoder.
ali: Right now.
Sunny Savita: Same decoder, only T is equal to 2, and the same decoder has t is equal to 3. Time stamps are different. It's working in a loop, actually. Okay? Just understand the RNN, the basic working of the RNN, you will get, like, how this is working, okay?
ali: Okay, okay, okay, okay, sir, I got it, I got that. But let's say tomorrow,
ali: Let's say in paper also, when there are, 6 decoders out.
ali: So, 6 decoders and 6 inputers are there, so all the.
Sunny Savita: Mmm.
ali: Process will happen, the same process.
ali: It happened on?
ali: 16.
Sunny Savita: Same process, no? Same process would be there. 6 would be there, 6 stack would be there, okay? But on the different, different time stem, it will be process.
ali: Okay, great.
Sunny Savita: At the time of the inferencing.
ali: Okay, so then output will be average, or…
Sunny Savita: No, it is… it will be a stack, not a horizontal spread. It will be stacked to each other. One output will be… one output will be an input for the another one.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
ali: Okay, okay, okay, I, okay, sir, okay, I understood. Now, sir, one more, one practical, one last, last doubt, one practical doubt. I was having, like.
ali: So when we are, generally in case of inference sync, when we are giving some prompt, right, we are giving some fixed, amount of tokens, right? Let's say our sentences have some 10
ali: documents.
ali: And by the output, we get it.
ali: Maybe, that full paragraph we are getting. We are getting around 100 or 200 words.
ali: So, how…
ali: it would work in this, in this case, Tamper. Because in the current problem, what you hear is, now we have 3 words, and that was giving 3 outputs.
ali: So… so dot product was to understanding that dot product was a little bit easier. But in case, when it is… when in the real case, when you have less number of tokens, but output as.
Sunny Savita: See, it is going to be working the same way, okay? So, see, whatever process I have explained to you, the 3x3, right? You can draw with 3x2 also, okay? Just do one thing, take it as a homework, draw it, and if you have any doubt after drawing that, show me that, okay? Tomorrow we'll discuss.
ali: Welcome.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
Sunny Savita: But it is going to be working the same way, all the metrics, multiplication, and all everything. Got it?
Sunny Savita: So, you can take, example, 4x3, 3x2, something like that. The 3 input, 2 output, the 4 output, 4 input, 3 output, okay? Like that, you can draw that, so that your revision also will be there. Got it?
Sunny Savita: I've shown with the 3x3, because it is easier to represent, easier to showcase, that's it.
ali: Focusing, focus, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Think.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Anil, what's your doubt?
anilp: Oh, hi, Sydney.
anilp: I'm listening on a couple of notes.
Sunny Savita: Vivek, you are done. Guys, if you're done, please, lower the hand.
Sunny Savita: Saroj and Roma Smith.
Sunny Savita: What crush… Yeah, guys, yeah, please go ahead, anyone is there. First, Anil, you go, okay?
anilp: Yeah, so, when we started this transformers, right, in LSTM, we have… in LSTM, even we have, encoder and decoder self-attention, right?
saroj: But that's notional.
anilp: How… how is it… how is it different? How is it different from this transformer self-ant engine?
Sunny Savita: Where we have, less cell potential in LSTM.
anilp: So, when you're explaining this self, LSTM, there we have to put a block saying that encoder, self-attention, and it uses internally the LSTM concept, right?
Sunny Savita: So, self-attention nahi LSTM, nahi, who told you that we have self-attention in LSTM?
anilp: There is a… there is a block, salute. I have that.
Sunny Savita: Wait, wait, let me show you that.
anilp: Fighting glitchy.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this one. When I said we have a self-attention here.
anilp: Not this one, Sunny. The first day of Transformer when we do. Begin the Transformer concept price. Day one.
Sunny Savita: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: Day 1.
Sunny Savita: Wait, let me open that also.
anilp: Oh…
Sunny Savita: So, in LSTM, we don't have self-attention at all. LSTM is a different architecture, transformer is a different architecture.
anilp: Sorry, with attention. It caught as an encoder-decoder with attention.
Sunny Savita: Encoder and decoder is one architecture. Encoder and decoder with attention is a transformer, actually.
Sunny Savita: Okay.
anilp: Okay. See?
Sunny Savita: If you are getting confused now, let me do one thing.
Sunny Savita: Wait.
Sunny Savita: Just a second, let me open that now.
Sunny Savita: I shared couple of paper, no?
Sunny Savita: Let me… Search over here, which…
Sunny Savita: Just go through with this research paper.
Sunny Savita: Neural machine translation.
anilp: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, then… Encoder… And decoder… 2014 paper.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this is the one… one mode is there.
Sunny Savita: Oh.
Sunny Savita: Sequence or sequence learning.
Sunny Savita: See, this paper now, this paper are the important one, okay?
anilp: Okay.
Sunny Savita: So just go through with this paper, see… can you see this architecture?
anilp: Yeah.
Sunny Savita: This one?
Sunny Savita: So, this is the sequential architecture of the encoder and decoder.
Sunny Savita: Okay, but here, actually, inside the sequential architecture, they were using the LSTM and the RNN.
Sunny Savita: This one.
Sunny Savita: Okay. Okay.
Sunny Savita: If you will go through with this particular search paper, you will get that.
Sunny Savita: So, RNN, LSTM itself is a different concept. Encoder and decoder, it's just a way of
Sunny Savita: flowing the data, passing the data, okay? Then they have combined this entire learning and all, and they created a new concept that is the attention all you need, which we are learning. But there, this, LSTM RNN does not come. That itself is a different concept.
Sunny Savita: Okay, so RNN, LSTM, then this research paper, encoder and decoder, how the data is being flowing, okay? Encoder, decoder, and then see this particular paper, this neural machine translation.
Sunny Savita: Here also, someone has explained… see, this research paper was published in 2016. So here, they have published the… sorry, here, they have explained the concept of the attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay? Which you are asking. So, self-attention is different, and attention is different.
anilp: So, if it… if it…
Sunny Savita: Talking about that?
Sunny Savita: a transformer paper, right? So there we have a concept of the self-attention. That is a transformer. But if we're talking about this research paper, neural, machine translation, then here we have a concept of the attention.
Sunny Savita: Okay? So this cross-attention, whatever I explained to you, right, today, so it is, like, more or less, it is similar to this only, this attention only. Okay? Before the transformer, this one more research paper was published. So what will be your sequence of learning? First, RNN, then STM.
Sunny Savita: Then, go through with this research paper, this one, encoder, decoder, then go through with this research paper, attention, and then come to the transformer, okay?
Sunny Savita: So that will be the correct way, or the idle way of the learning, right? That is a part of the NLP, natural language processing. Got it?
anilp: Okay. Yeah.
anilp: And my second cushion is.
anilp: Today, right, the stack of encoders and decoders, what we have in transformers, those are designed with 6 when it is being priced, right?
anilp: So, today, whatever we are using, okay, we don't change anything on the model level, we just train it and we infer it, right? So, in this case, the stack will not get changed at any time, right?
anilp: Will there be.
Sunny Savita: No, sir, we can change now, sir. See why you are not able to understand the simple meaning. This is the hyperparameter, sir.
anilp: Okay, so depending on the data, what we pass.
Sunny Savita: Not depending on the data, it is experimental, it depends, actually, on which… in what… on which factor it depends. See, we have a, like, very long context, very huge context, okay, very critical data, typical data. According to that, we tune that.
Sunny Savita: Okay, it's very experimental value, sir. Understand that. Understand about the hyperparameter. Okay, take AI a little seriously. You're saying 6, it is fixed. Alright, how it is fixed, sir? How it is fixed? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Give me at least one region, why it could be fixed. Tell me.
anilp: Okay, so my doubt is now, again, right, when we use these models, will there be a parameter where we pass this, the number of stacks.
anilp: When we're using it in the practical.
anilp: How do… how do we… how this is… this will be a hyperparameter? Because we will not pass anywhere, right?
Sunny Savita: C, see, see, sir, see. Are you training that model? First of all, tell me.
anilp: No, we are not… No, not going to train.
Sunny Savita: You are going to be using a pre-trained model.
anilp: Yes, kind of.
Sunny Savita: pre-trained ka.
anilp: because I'm gonna be…
Sunny Savita: train karke de hai.
anilp: Exactly, okay.
Sunny Savita: relative ne dia hai.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, aapke, kisi company, buddy company.
anilp: Correct.
Sunny Savita: Google na, watch it.
Sunny Savita: OpenANA. Now, how you can train the transformer on a used data set? Tell me.
Sunny Savita: Understanding my point, whatever bigger motor you are using, someone has already trained. Now see. Now, if you want to train that, yes, you can tweak that hyperparameter. Let me show you the example for that, just a second.
Sunny Savita: Cool.
Sunny Savita: Here is the transformer code, which I'm going to share you in the next class, okay? So, see. Here…
Sunny Savita: This is the transformer. You can train your transformer with a small data, just to simulate the process, okay? So, this is the data, you can load the data, you can process the data, you can clean the data, then, see, this is the
Sunny Savita: Position, quote-unquote, okay. This is, like, your multi-self-attention code, right?
Sunny Savita: Now, here is your point-wise, feed-forward network, right? Then this is your encoder layer, what is happening over here. See what is happening in the encoder? Self-attention, then position-wise, feet-forward, layer, dropout, okay.
Sunny Savita: Then here is a decoder layer, then this is a transformer. Ha, ya, paraph change kar sak, the base code meh, you can do that.
Sunny Savita: So, where you can change? Dimension aap change kar sakte ho, number of head aap change kar saktiho, number of layer, sub aapke hot meh hai, choo up karna chow karwap, ya ape.
Sunny Savita: number of layouts mein aap che ha. CHIP use pein, essa.
anilp: When I was revising this couple of days back, the concepts, right, I got this in my mind, so… Yeah.
anilp: And, my next thought is, Sunny, today we have this encoder and decoder model, right? So.
anilp: just I read some… somewhere, like, few models are only designed for encoder, and few are designed only for decoder, right? So, BERT is only for encoder, in the sense…
anilp: it will give only the, contextual embeddings, there will not be any output in that.
Sunny Savita: Yes, see, actually, those, BERT and all, we were using earlier means,
Sunny Savita: They have, trained, 5 to 6… 6 to 7 year backstaff, right? But nowadays, we have a GPT-based model.
Sunny Savita: GPT-based model, where we have a concept of the mask attention, self-attention, sorry, mass self-attention, and this, cross-attention, and other modified attention also, okay? With that, actually, we are able to train a more capable model.
Sunny Savita: And the embedding output which you're talking about now, that will be also very good, right? Contextful. So…
Sunny Savita: Nowadays, though?
Sunny Savita: GPT-based model, the decoder-based model is being used, right? If you're talking about the encoder-based model, yes, BERT and the other model was there.
Sunny Savita: And, it was processing your data in a same way, okay? And, if you don't… if you want to get an embedding, you can get the embedding. If you want to get a final output, you can add that head, okay, after that encoder, encoder block, and you can get the prediction as well, okay?
anilp: Okay, okay. And my last question is, can you open the diagram, Sunny? I just want to show one thing there.
anilp: In the transformer radar.
anilp: Floor diagram.
anilp: Boom.
anilp: Here, right, okay. Here, this we have an input, left side is the input, and right side is the decoder is the output, which it gets processed.
anilp: So here, when we are… when we are training, right, so what we do here, when we pass the output in the right side, will it wait until it gets the input from encoder, or how it is saying here?
Sunny Savita: Sorry, I didn't.
anilp: No, no, my doubt is, we parallelly pass the data to input and even to the output, okay? So, it started processing the data from both the ends, or will the decoder wait until it gets the input from encoder?
anilp: How will be the flow here?
anilp: Internally.
Sunny Savita: aaya.
Sunny Savita: That's it.
anilp: Okay, so until it processes the embeddings in the left side, from the encoder, will it wait here for this…
Sunny Savita: Paralleli powers kar diga, parallel me kya dikka, the agar reaanse video taya. Either attention hogya, norm hogya, ya, pe marks attention.
Sunny Savita: data, actually.
anilp: Oh, no.
Sunny Savita: programming calculation isa hot hai, you would automatically halfway akita saara mill jayiga, yep training hoga toh.
anilp: Oh, okay.
anilp: Okay.
anilp: Thanks, thanks, Annie.
Sunny Savita: Your next stop is…
Utkarsh Pagare: Go ahead, send me a digital search.
Sunny Savita: Nia, you can go.
Utkarsh Pagare: Thanks, Shani. First question, Shani, is, that linear layer, which you told about, has a very… which has a variable length, which has,
Utkarsh Pagare: variable length, basically. Will it have… will it have variable length or not? I mean, you said it would be equal to the output, vocabulary size, basically. It would be equal to vocabulary size. Some other vocabulary size can be, like, different each time, right? So…
Utkarsh Pagare: Will that be variable, that linear layer, precise?
Sunny Savita: Apku kalakta, bati.
Sunny Savita: output ka length, toh firrok variable yoga wo.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, and, second question, Suni, is he, job a, masked self-attention method, usme aap, you were explaining, QKV and, QRK coapne, .rev kia.
Utkarsh Pagare: Then, or… minus infinity card this hain.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, wait for 0, 0 after this time.
Utkarsh Pagare: Only Q is passed to the, to, to the upper layer, right?
Utkarsh Pagare: If you can… Can…
Utkarsh Pagare: Yeah.
Utkarsh Pagare: You opt for your, transformer car architecture.
Utkarsh Pagare: Customer decoder one apart.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, this one, no.
Utkarsh Pagare: Yehave.
Utkarsh Pagare: It's no service, it's so boring,
Utkarsh Pagare: But hum aage tohas kyukohi bejne onlya, right?
Sunny Savita: On the cucum.
Utkarsh Pagare: Query. Query a larger queue, huh?
Utkarsh Pagare: Wohi ajayaga, right? Multi, yeah, so I'm…
Utkarsh Pagare: self-masked attention, masked self-attention, say, only Q will go forward.
Utkarsh Pagare: cupulative aaphay.
Sunny Savita: apneko.
Sunny Savita: A final contextual vector milky ha.
Sunny Savita: contextual vector.
Sunny Savita: query vector benay ka, mat hai tino vector jumeling, you know, 1, 2, 3. Yes. Correct.
Utkarsh Pagare: Okay, okay. It will again get multiplied with the Q vector, scale.
Sunny Savita: Nice, sir, nice, sir. Deku aap samjai ini aap self-attention padi nahi yo revise kiya, apne hai.
Sunny Savita: blue ke baat.
Utkarsh Pagare: I mean, we've been trying to say?
Sunny Savita: karta, celi.
Utkarsh Pagare: So, basically, okay, yeah, he decree.
Sunny Savita: Oh.
Utkarsh Pagare: word ka waitage lekar ke.
Utkarsh Pagare: Just say, suppose WB…
Sunny Savita: karta.
Sunny Savita: na.
Sunny Savita: Yeah. Yearly.
Sunny Savita: Hello?
Sunny Savita: Ye.
Sunny Savita: bat.
Sunny Savita: But lose a winner?
Utkarsh Pagare: Value server.
Sunny Savita: Isk about Kamilai.
Utkarsh Pagare: Contextually.
Sunny Savita: query ka.
Utkarsh Pagare: Hmm.
Sunny Savita: It's say you multiply home with, you know.
Sunny Savita: Sorry, ki kaya query jogbi pula, ha. Those three sites, encoder sites hai.
Sunny Savita: So, ye vector hongge, query vector sa serif,
Sunny Savita: Sorry, keith, I can check in the email.
Sunny Savita: Query and key.
Sunny Savita: Query, say. So, ye oga, query vector, say multiplier. WQ, say multiply over.
Sunny Savita: That's a telo vector.
Sunny Savita: Good.
Utkarsh Pagare: Nate.
Utkarsh Pagare: -Oh.
Utkarsh Pagare: Hold on.
Sunny Savita: kya melega.
Sunny Savita: Query vector milling in over here, it's ke…
Sunny Savita: Query of V. Query of R.
Sunny Savita: And query your friend.
Sunny Savita: melai.
Sunny Savita: Right? Or key or value can't say ayah.
Sunny Savita: Simple to hear.
Sunny Savita: If we revise rules?
Utkarsh Pagare: Yeah, sure.
Sunny Savita: What is here? Okay? Okay.
Sunny Savita: No.
Utkarsh Pagare: Next class, I will ask if, in case any doubt…
Sunny Savita: Sure, sure, sure.
Utkarsh Pagare: Thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now, Smith, what's your doubt?
Smit: Yeah, hi, Sunny. Question regarding the cross-attention, right?
Smit: So in the cross-attention, we are getting the key and the value vector from encoderSign, right, Sunny?
Sunny Savita: But…
Smit: Code aside, I thought that we only get a metrics
Smit: After we pass from FEET for a neural network.
Smit: Right, so how are we getting a key and the value matrix? Is it the same thing that you mentioned, like, a couple of minutes back? You're just doing the matrix multiplication with the query vector and the…
Sunny Savita: No, no, see, actually, whatever is happening in the cross-attention is happening that, right? So, what is the output of the encoder? First of all, tell me that.
Smit: The output of the encoder is coming from the upper feed for a neural network. We are doing addition and normalization, and the vector that we are getting, right?
Sunny Savita: We are getting the vector.
Smit: Yep.
Sunny Savita: So, just a sec, let me explain you that.
Sunny Savita: See, sir. We got 3 vectors, let's say this vector, just a sec.
Sunny Savita: let's say we got 3 vectors. First vector… Second vector, third vector.
Sunny Savita: From where we got it, tell me.
Smit: From the encoder side, you're saying?
Sunny Savita: Correct. Now, this data will… we are going where it's going in a cross-encoder.
Smit: Yes.
Sunny Savita: Okay, and let's say this is my cross encoder.
Sunny Savita: Got it?
Sunny Savita: Now, what will happen over here in the cross-encoder?
Sunny Savita: This 3 vector will be multiplied with what? This 3 vector will be multiplied with the…
Sunny Savita: Key, and the… value matrices.
Smit: decoder, is it, or it's…
Sunny Savita: Oh, decoder, sir. Bid metrics is… okay. Okay, okay. W.
Sunny Savita: K and WV, this method.
Smit: Okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: Okay, with this, it will be multiplied. Got it? So what I'll be getting over here…
Sunny Savita: I'll be getting 3 key metrics, 3 value metrics, right? Sorry, 3 key vector, 3 value vector, right? Now, from here, query vector will come. So, here is my mask self-attention, this is my mask self-attention.
Smit: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Let me show you that.
Sunny Savita: See, this is my mass cell potential. Let's suppose this is my mass cell potential.
Sunny Savita: Now, from this mass self-attention, what is coming? Three vector.
Sunny Savita: 3 vector is coming, not query, 3 vector is coming.
Sunny Savita: Okay, now this free vector, actually, it's going to be multiplied with what? This three vector is going to be multiplied with a WQ.
Sunny Savita: Right? So, these three vectors multiplying with a WQ, and I'm getting the query vector.
Sunny Savita: these three vectors is going to be multiplied with a WK and WV, okay? And this entire thing is happening inside the cross attention, this one. So, cross attention is processing the output.
Sunny Savita: Which is coming from the.
Smit: everybody.
Sunny Savita: From encoder, the study vector.
Sunny Savita: After multiplying with this WQWB, okay, which is my query and key vector, and this 3 vector, which is going to be multiplied with this WQ, okay, this, all the thing is going to be processed inside the cross attention. Got it? That's it. Simple.
Smit: Yeah, so WKWE, right, Sunny? This is from the encoder, the initial, WKWP matrix, right?
Sunny Savita: No encoder, no encoder, nothing. From encoder, we just have this one. This WKW, it will be over here, inside the cross attention, here.
Smit: Okay, okay.
Sunny Savita: I'll build, okay.
Smit: Okay, thank you, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thanks.
Sunny Savita: Okay, next stop is…
saroj: Hi, Sunny, can you go ahead, please?
Sunny Savita: Here, you can.
saroj: Sunny, just… I just got a confusion,
saroj: So, when we have the input from encoder to the multi-denser and decoder.
saroj: So, we have stack of encoders, right?
saroj: So, the input which is going to the multi-year attention of decoder, it is the overall stacks, input, or, like, individuals,
saroj: in…
Sunny Savita: Overall, it's flexible.
saroj: Sorry, Sonny?
Sunny Savita: Overall, a stack input.
saroj: Okay, over it? Okay, okay, got it, got it, Sunday, okay, yeah.
saroj: So suddenly, like, it'll still… so it will wait till all this encoder finishes, or, like, how it will be then?
Sunny Savita: Yes, yes, all the encoder will be finished, then whatever final input is coming, it is going there, that's it.
saroj: Okay, okay, got it, got it, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Oh.
Sunny Savita: So, Saro just done… Smith is also funny.
Sunny Savita: Anyone having any doubt, Roma, do you have any doubt?
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay. Okay, this is, like, a little off-topic, this is related to my work, so I'm not sure if this is the right platform, or should I take… yeah.
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay, so I'll just give you a, like, background, or, like, I work in, like, tech ops and GPMC, but then it's just one AI project. Most of… mostly they are calling it as Agentic AI and everything. The flow is we get…
Bhavikatti, Roma: Alerts on, you know, a monitoring platform, and then we are running certain queries, and…
Bhavikatti, Roma: So they… what is the agent doing? It is just picking up the alert, checking if you have got that particular alert, and then it tries to run the query, and it does the analysis on its own, tries to understand what the trend is, who the impacting merchant is, and all of that.
Bhavikatti, Roma: And emails the respective merchant that there is some issue going on and all of that, okay?
Bhavikatti, Roma: Now…
Bhavikatti, Roma: See, now, there's a software developer team who has done this, and they've just put in an agent in between, and they're calling it as, you know, Agent AKI project and all of that.
Bhavikatti, Roma: Now, I don't know, so for me, it is, like, to…
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay, so if I have to implement these things, obviously I'll have to learn this thing, but then right now, I just have to, like.
Bhavikatti, Roma: put in these things together and do it on my own. For me, you… can you suggest any platform wherein I can learn these things quickly? Because for me, to wait down for 3, 6 months, and… this is a great platform, obviously, what you're teaching is very…
Bhavikatti, Roma: like, it's amazing, in fact, for if I have to, like, have in-depth knowledge and everything. But then, practically, like, we're so much in a fast-paced environment that we have deadlines.
Bhavikatti, Roma: Put down things together, and we have to…
Bhavikatti, Roma: give it… give the results as well. So, anything…
Sunny Savita: What is… what is your current requirement? You wanted to learn agent API, is it?
Bhavikatti, Roma: Yes.
Sunny Savita: You can learn from my YouTube, okay? There are several sessions over my YouTube, you can check out there.
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay,
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay, I did not check that. Okay, so, which one would you recommend in your playlist, like…
Sunny Savita: So, there is one Langraph playlist, you can follow that, you can learn from there. First, you can check out with the Agent AKI roadmap.
Sunny Savita: I recently uploaded one AgentKai roadmap, okay? There you will get the very good level of understanding of the Agent AKI, what it is. Then, what you can do, you can follow my Langraph playlist.
Bhavikatti, Roma: Like, to finally have… Sorry, yeah, I was just going through your line graph, yeah, there are 21 videos.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, just complete that. I think that would be sufficient. You can design any language-based agentic system, okay?
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay, so in that, so what I… is, like, the developer has put it on Amazon Bedrock, this is what… and they have something called Art SDK, he's built it, and wherein we have… and he has put it on Bedrock.
Sunny Savita: Mmm.
Bhavikatti, Roma: things out that we're.
Sunny Savita: Bedrock, see, Bedrock is, again, I had one playlist on YouTube, just check, Bedrock playlist is there, okay?
Sunny Savita: I didn't take on my YouTube, I didn't… I took on some different YouTube, but yeah, it is there. I mentioned in my playlist section. MedDoc is just a platform, okay? It means, AWS provided by AWS only, it's a managed service, right?
Sunny Savita: So it's providing you the different, models, different vector databases, different embedding models, right?
Sunny Savita: It's… everything is self-explanatory over there, so if you are going to be spending at least 4 to 5 days over there by yourself, just by creating one dummy account or any student account, right, or any, like, account, right, over there, you can easily understand the AWS bedrock, okay? So my suggestion would be, before going through any tutorial, just create an AWS account, explore the AWS bedrock by yourself, read out their documents.
Sunny Savita: and try to create some initial solution, okay? You will get a very quick understanding of the bedrock. Got it?
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay.
Bhavikatti, Roma: Also, you said, like, you have certain videos on Bedrock, so do you want to do 21 videos of your Landgraph, and then Bedrock, or first Bedrock, and then those 21 videos?
Sunny Savita: See, Langraph is an open source framework, right? And Bedrock is what? Bedrock is a platform which is providing you with the different services, okay? For what? For building the AI-related application, like LLM, embedding, and all. So both are different. You can cover both simultaneously also, okay?
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay, okay.
Bhavikatti, Roma: Okay, makes sense. Thank you so much.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, thank you.
Sunny Savita: Okay… any more doubt? I cannot see now.
Sunny Savita: Yeah, Ramchandra, do you have any doubt?
Ramachandra EDA: Hi, sir. Actually, I have a question, actually. Here we have…
Ramachandra EDA: Two components in transformer, encoder and decoder.
Ramachandra EDA: And, here, which one, actually, you explained that, it's behave, like, parallel and sequential manner, like that. Here, which one is, behave,
Ramachandra EDA: parallel, and which one is sequential? Means its inferencing is sequential, and training is parallel.
Sunny Savita: Yes. The decoder part now, decoder part, actually, it behaves parallel while we are training, and sequential while we are doing prediction, okay?
Ramachandra EDA: Okay.
Sunny Savita: Yeah.
Ramachandra EDA: Means it's, that means it's, here totally, the decoder concept is, for data training and, inferencing purpose.
Sunny Savita: Hmm, correct.
Ramachandra EDA: address.
Sunny Savita: They're encoding the output, and they go to the… taking the.
Ramachandra EDA: Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah, encoder is for encoding and all, correct?
Sunny Savita: Got it, right.
Ramachandra EDA: Okay, okay, okay, thank you, sir, thank you, yeah.
Sunny Savita: Okay, thank you. Now, Tija Srini, what's your doubt?
Sunny Savita: Tejas, Suni, are you there?
Sunny Savita: Okay, guys, I think I clarified all the doubt, the Jasmine, I don't think she's there.
Sunny Savita: So, if you have any doubt, guys, that's, means, sorry, if, you have anything, then I would suggest you first, revise the concept of the transformer, okay, before coming to any conclusion, and then remaining doubt, even you can clarify in the next class. Got it?
Sunny Savita: Oh, good.
Sunny Savita: It's fine, guys, thank you, bye. Take care.